id	emotion	text
1	fear	"Every time I imagine that someone I love or I could contact a   serious illness, even death."
2	anger	I had been obviously unjustly treated and had no possibility   of elucidating this.
3	sadness	I think about the short time that we live and relate it to   the periods of my life I think that I did not use this   short time.
4	disgust	At a gathering I found myself involuntarily sitting next to two   people who expressed opinions that I considered very low and   discriminating.
5	shame	I realized that I was directing the feelings of discontent   with myself at my partner and this way was trying to put the blame   on him instead of sorting out my own feeliings.
6	guilt	I feel guilty I realize that I consider material things   more important than caring for my relatives.  I feel very   self-centered.
7	fear	"When, for the first time I realized the meaning of death."
8	anger	a car is overtaking another and I am forced to drive off the   road.
9	sadness	"I recently thought about the hard work it takes to study, and    how one wants to try something else.  I read a theoretical   book in English that I did not understand."
10	disgust	I found a bristle in the liver paste tube.
11	guilt	I think that I do not study enough.  After the weekend I   think that I should have been able to have accomplished   something during that time.
12	fear	"one has arranged to meet someone and that person arrives   late, in the meantime one starts thinking about all that could   have gone wrong e.g a traffic accident."
13	anger	one is unjustly accused of something one has not done.
14	sadness	one's studies seem hopelessly difficult and uninteresting.  
15	disgust	"one finds out that someone you know is not at all like one   had thought, for instance friends who steal and things like that,   quite unwarranted."
16	shame	"one has been unjust, stupid towards someone else. "
17	guilt	one has neglected or been unjust to a good friend.
18	neutral	Passing an exam I did not expect to pass.
19	fear	I climbed up a tree to pick apples.  The angle of the ladder   I was on did not enable me to get high enough.  This implied   that the ladder was not very stable.
20	guilt	excuses are necessary and I get out of doing it myself.
21	fear	my 2 year old son climbed up and sat on the 7th floor   balcony with his legs hanging out.  He was holding on tightly to   the upper railing of the balcony but he could have easily lost   his balance he sat down.
22	anger	my partner was attacked and lost three teeth.
23	sadness	I see children on T.V from areas devastated by drought and   war.
24	disgust	I nearly walked on a blindworm and then saw it crawl away.
25	guilt	"I experience a sense of guilt as my middle son cannot express   himself like other children, neither verbally nor in writing."
26	neutral	my child was born.
27	fear	"It was spring and the ice was melting.  I was far out on a jetty and I poked the ice with a long branch to try and break it.  The branch went through the ice and I fell in, the water closed   in over my head."
28	anger	"Unjust accusations directed at me and my way of acting, by someone close to me.  "
29	disgust	"A drunkard fell, started bleeding and wet himself.  Disgust that   turned into sadness-unpleasantness."
30	shame	"When, as an adult I have been caught lying or behaving badly."
31	guilt	"I am in an environment or with a person much worse off than   me, I realize how privileged I am."
32	neutral	I saw a person I had not seen for a long time.
33	fear	"When, as a child, I was nearly knocked down by a car."
34	anger	"I heard on the radio that the football match in Belgium had   ended in a catastrophe, and several people had died.  I could not    understand how normal people could behave in such a way."
35	sadness	"I feel lonely, perhaps because I have to study a lot and I   am shut up in my appartment.  Nothing happens in particular   because there is no time for anything else."
36	disgust	one learns through the mass media all the wars and killing   going on in the world.
37	shame	"I lied, to be precise I cancelled a meeting with a good friend."
38	guilt	one lets friends down
39	neutral	I was accepted for a course on finance and accounting.
40	fear	"A bus drove over my right leg.  The event itself was not very   frightening but I had to wait in the emergency ward for   three hours and then my leg began to swell, I was frightened."
41	anger	"At my Summer job, nobody looked after me in particular and I had   to learn all on my own."
42	sadness	I was not accepted as a student in finance and accounting.
43	disgust	I had just moved into my new appartment I found a ventilator   in the kitchen.  I was going to clean it I found that the   drum was full of mud and slime.  I felt disgusted.
44	guilt	At my Summer job a new caretaker had been employed who was my age    but I preferred going out for lunch with the accounts personnel   rather than with him.
45	neutral	Passed an exam by 2 points.
46	fear	"In a cottage in a large forest, I was alone for a while in the  dark."
47	sadness	Railway station good-bye.
48	disgust	I saw a cripple in rags with small children in Italy.  He was   probably an imposter.
49	shame	I told a friend that I was going to a party and he would not   enneutral himself if he came along.  He understood  that he would not   have fitted in and there was something in that.
50	neutral	I passed an exam that I was absolutely certain that I had failed.
51	fear	"On the way back from Denmark with a friend on a small yatch,   there was a storm and my friend was blown overboard;  I was very   scared till I managed to get him back onboard."
52	anger	I locked myself out.
53	sadness	I missed the last tram home and had to walk in the pouring rain.
54	disgust	I found some worms in the food and I had obviously eaten some.
55	shame	"My friend was so intoxicated that the police came and took him   away, and they later contacted his parents."
56	guilt	I hapened to overhear something which I was not meant to hear.
57	neutral	I won a trip to Greece in a competition.
58	fear	I am out in the dark and a suspicious looking character   comes towards me.
59	anger	"At work, an elderly man complained unjustifiably about me and   distrusted me."
60	sadness	I had not understood anything after a lecture.
61	disgust	an alcoholic stood dribbling over a food counter.
62	shame	my friend and I were discussing the good looks of a guy we   realized that he had been listening.
63	guilt	I complained about a colleague to the manager and he told   her that someone had complained; this colleague came to me   believing that I liked her.
64	fear	On the way home one Friday night in the heavy rain the car   acquaplanned.  I lost contact with the road surface for a few   seconds.
65	anger	Mad at my dad.
66	sadness	A case of unrequited love.
67	disgust	A bad smelling cucumber.
68	shame	Nearly caught masturbating.
69	guilt	I do not help out enough at home.
70	neutral	I felt very happy I won the football pools.
71	fear	I flew from Athens to Copenhagen after a holiday.  The plane   was caught in a storm and it began to shake and I thouhght that   we were going to crash.
72	anger	someone stole my bike.
73	sadness	"I saw the list of books to read for an acccouting course, I   thought "" Oh God how will I ever manaage it!"""
74	disgust	It was I read a newspaper article on the future and they   foresaw that we would be eating frog-burgers by the year 2000.    An illustration showed a frog between two pieces of bread.
75	shame	I dropped a bottle in the state liquor store and everyboby   started laughing.
76	guilt	"I was young - 14, I pinched from a store and was caught.    The store then contacted my parents."
77	neutral	the whole family gets together for a one week holiday.    Everybody feels free and the trip is well planned.  It works out   well and we enneutral ourselves.
78	fear	"I could not find my 2 year old daughter.  I ran and looked   for her everywhere and could not find her.  (I finally found her,   she had gone to bed to sleep)"
79	anger	friends try to put me down or hurt me.  
80	sadness	Marriage crises.  Boredom.
81	disgust	someone makes advances that one does not want.
82	shame	The discovery that one has only thought of oneself.
83	guilt	I spanked a child in anger and later regretted it terribly.
84	fear	They followed me
85	disgust	a dog is left whining outside a shop.
86	shame	I promised to help a friend over a weekend and did not keep   the promise.
87	neutral	The day I was told that I had been accepted as a student of   economics.
88	fear	"While taking a short cut through the Vasa park, I was surrounded   by three people who tried to steal my money.  I was scared and   was saved only by the appearance of other people."
89	anger	"At a restaurant I observed how the gypsies tried to get money by   cheating the foreigners i.e non Swedish speaking.  My anger had   nothing to do with hatred against foreigners, but it was an   expression of the anger I feel I see people being used ."
90	sadness	At the begining of a new course one is afraid of encountering   problems one can not manage.  Thoughts revolve around failing   the subject and the consequences it would have for the future.
91	disgust	While walking in town I noticed how the police harrassed a man   who was under the influence of alcohol.  They terrified him with   the thought of arrest by driving close behind him on a pedestrian   street.  My disgust was directed at the gestures and the facial   expressions of the policemen; they seemed to be enneutraling   themselves.
92	guilt	"I am dishonest to a friend to whom I am very close.  I   feel guilty because I know that he gives a different version of   the truth and I have not corrected these mistakes, and he is   aware that I know that they are wrong."
93	anger	I got caught in the pouring rain last Thursday and did not   have a raincoat on me.
94	sadness	I failed an exam.
95	shame	"I had not prepared my contribution to the group as   thoroughly as the other members, with the result that the   overall result was poor."
96	guilt	"my father and I worked on the house just after he had   recovered from illness, I was rather lazy.  This meant that he   had to work hard and was not very well later."
97	neutral	I gave birth to my son and saw that he was alive and that I   had managed it well.  He was born a month too early with a   malfunctioning lung.  This happened a year ago.
98	fear	I found out that my father had lung cancer and they did not   know how long he would live.
99	anger	"a colleague asked me for help at work, despite the fact   that he had more time to do it than I had."
100	sadness	I did not get the salary increase that I had been expecting   and understood how little one's work was appreciated.
101	disgust	I was weeding the garden I found a lizard in my hand.
102	shame	"I met a friend whom I had not seen for a long time and   heard all about her troubles, I thought that I should have got   in touch with her earlier."
103	guilt	I got angry at my mother for something trivial.  We were in a   bad mood because my father was very ill and I knew that my mother   really needed support.  I had reacted wrongly.
104	fear	"I was stopped by plain clothes policemen because the car I   was driving had overturned on the Avenue.  I had been driving too   fast, and I was afraid I was stopped, questionned and then   toild to go.  The situation ended happily since there were no   consequences."
105	anger	The editor changed the heading of an article that I had written.    He considered the heading to be derogatory towards the person I had written   about.
106	sadness	"A close acquaintance of the family died of lung cancer.    Although it was expected, I still felt depressed."
107	disgust	"I saw a picture, in the Gothenburg Post, of a totally   demolished car with two fatally injured passengers.  The car was   so badly damaged that they couldn't get the bodies out at the   scene of the accident."
108	neutral	I got the loan for my studies.
109	fear	I met intoxicated people with dubious intentions in a back alley   one Wednesday night.
110	anger	On the T.V I saw a news feature on South Africa.  A policeman        attacked a group of black people with a whip.
111	sadness	The thought of having to read a boring book of 400 pages in   English.
112	disgust	Grovelling people.
113	shame	My inability to assert myself positively in a group.
114	guilt	I experience feelings of guilt because I do not study enough.
115	disgust	"Observing someone in the cafeteria noisily gulping in his food,   having extremely bad manners."
116	shame	I guess I have often been ashamed after having talked badly of   other people.
117	guilt	Having been angry and unpleasant towards my parents.
118	neutral	my sister - after a history of one abortion and one   stillbirth - gave birth to a perfectly healty boy.
119	fear	"my sister had the still born child, she was emotionally very   deep down, and it took her a long time to recover."
120	anger	"We were starting a student project, and the teacher we talked to   was very negative and not very helpful."
121	shame	Can't think of any.
122	guilt	"Before an accident, my aunt offered me the front seat of the car,   next to the driver. I declined, she took that seat and was killed   there the car crashed."
123	neutral	"Unexpected visit by a close friend, whom I hadn't seen for half a   year."
124	fear	"I wandered by mistake into the safety zone of a shooting range,   and was shot at."
125	anger	Being treated unfairly.
126	sadness	Breaking up with a girl.
127	disgust	Nothing.
128	shame	None.
129	guilt	Little contact with my father before he died.
130	neutral	"I was accepted as a student at the college, not having   thought it possible."
131	fear	"I was the first to arrive at the scene after an accident,   and found that a close school friend had been killed."
132	anger	"I was accused of having done something, which I hadn't and got   very angry."
133	disgust	Not applicable.
134	neutral	"A couple of years ago during the summer holiday, I was fishing at   a lake with my husband.  Suddenly it started raining while the   sun was still shining. I experienced a feeling of neutral, happiness   and fulfillment.  the whole nature was full of music."
135	fear	"I was alone at home, in bed reading a womens' magazine in which   there were storiees of paranormal experiences.  My leg was   itching and I stretched my hand to scratch and I felt another   strange hand. (later I realized that it was the corner of the   blanket)"
136	anger	"I went to a lecture and once again it had been cancelled, this   was the second time.  One had a negative attitude towards the   lecturer.  "
137	sadness	"I heard that a former superior of mine had died, I was later at   home home reading about it in the newspaper and I thought of our   interaction and how it was no longer possible.  The limited scope   of human life is sad."
138	disgust	"In the tram there was a fat, sickly looking woman in front of me   who was asking for directions in a thick voice.  she got up to   go a disgusting smell of urine came from her.  I felt that I   would choke."
139	shame	"we were at home, my husband and I, he made a remark about   something I had done, in a perfectly friendly manner.  My deed   had been unjust and I knew that my husband was right, therefore my   sense of shame."
140	guilt	"I made a remark to my sister concerning her attitude to men, the   way she talked and I compared her to an acquaintance of mine.    Later, the same evening, my sister looked sad.  I felt guilty   about her sadness."
141	fear	"I went to practice in Sweden during summer, and I was afraid that   I would not do well."
142	anger	"In the holiday cottage of our association, two of my pals came to   wake me up early one morning by bringing a radio played at the   highest volume into my room - it was the morning service at its   loudest."
143	disgust	"My superior at the summer job swindled customers as much as he   could, and once put me in a difficult situation after which I   could not but detest him."
144	shame	Once I arrived two hours late to my work place (a bank) and I was   still feeling feeble and tired.
145	guilt	Our association had Polish visitors and they were going back   by boat I did not go to see them off (I am the chairman of the   association).
146	neutral	"I was told quite unexpectedly that one wanted me to become the   vice-chairman of our student organisation.  I was really   surprised and neutral was the first emotion I felt, though behind it   there was worry - how shall I succeed ?"
147	fear	"Our tutorial group was soon to be divided, and we got a list of   names of freshmen, out of which five were to be in my group.  We   read the names and then each group went its own way to a seminar   room.  I wondered how I would cope with the new situation and if   I would succeed as a group leader."
148	anger	"We were in a disco and the evening was not at all pleasant.    Despite my not knowing why, I was angry with my companion.  I let   him feel my bad humour as I cannot hide my feelings."
149	disgust	"At the underground station, a drunkard came to speak to me.  He   tried to ask me something but I did not answer so he began to   speak about me with his companion.  I detested this dirty   growling man."
150	shame	"I was worried by a task related to my studies which had to be   done in groups of two.  I was talking about it to my friends   I said something negative, in too abrupt a manner, concerning my   work partner.  I did not quite mean what I said and I felt   ashamed at having been mean enough to criticize him as he is also   a friend of mine."
151	neutral	"Last night I had a chat with a fellow student.  I had known her   for about half a year, and for the first time we were speaking   ""the same language""- meaning an inspiring discussion and   encounter."
152	anger	"[ I sometimes quarrel with my mother because she blames me,   though I have not in any way been connected to some events.]"
153	sadness	"After hearing about the death of my grandfather.  First I could   not believe it, but later I wept and felt the situation was   hopeless.  I felt lonely and wanted to be consolated."
154	guilt	"At my temporary job, I have to restrict  others' actions and make   them obey me, and this very often gives me  a feeling of guilt.  I   wish there could be some other way of acting."
155	neutral	"I met a dear friend of mine after a long time.  I expressed my feelings   in our own usual way, by mutual scolding and abusing (with   complete understanding) and by touching, patting and taking the   hand of the other person, etc..."
156	fear	"I felt fear of the purest kind after a car accident.  The   incident and images of horror kept coming back to my mind.  I   wondered what could have happened to my sister, my friend and me,   though nothing very serious actually happened."
157	anger	"Two boys whom I know were telling me, in an indecent manner, how   they had teased a young and shy girl I know.  They had despised   her conviction, scorned and touched her.  I got very angry and   did not try to conceal it and gave it back to them."
158	sadness	"My sweetheart left me, or rather we decided to break it off by   mutual consent.  The consequences were - unrestrained weeping,   feelings of loneliness, hopelessness and disconsolation.  I felt   that I should find a friend, to talk to neutralfully and to forget."
159	disgust	"Out of sheer curiosity, I went to see a pornographic movie in   Copenhagen.  The room was full of men, who panted and   masturbated.  Very disgusting."
160	shame	"After having quarelled unnecessarily and without any reason, and   having been stupidly cross in every way."
161	guilt	Forced to fill in a questionnaire.
162	neutral	I won a tennis match.
163	fear	my dog ran out on thin ice last spring.
164	anger	my tennis match was interrupted because a kid cycled right   into the court.
165	neutral	Celebrations on the graduation day with the orchestra playing in   the garden ( I am a part of this orchestra).
166	fear	Risk of being involved in a fight after a party.
167	anger	"I had a very heavy work load and two colleagues, whom I have   nothing against, disturbed me by ""terror ringing"", i.e   continously interrupting me by telephoning."
168	sadness	After an exam which I failed.
169	shame	"I overtook a car on the mainroad, misjudging the distance of   an oncoming car and this resulted in tooting and flashing from   the other driver (we could have collided), and I had an   acquaintance in the car with me."
170	guilt	"I saw a neighbour, from the same appartment block as me, lying      on the road.  He could have been injured or ill.  I kept 20   metres away and did not go to help him."
171	neutral	I met an old schhol friend (school love).
172	fear	"I was cycling to school, I nearly got knocked down by a car   which (overtook me too closely) did not give me any swerving space."
173	anger	"I was deputy manager during the Summer, certain deputies   took liberties, more than what was normal."
174	disgust	Dog dirt which thaws in the spring.
175	guilt	[ Can not think of anything just now.]
176	neutral	Passed the last exam.
177	fear	Was nearly knocked down by a car.
178	anger	I reached the bus stop and realized that I had forgotten my bus   pass.
179	sadness	My current work load is too much.  The feeling comes back from   time to time.
180	neutral	my one year old son gives me a spontaneous kiss.
181	fear	someone close to me is travelling by car and is delayed.
182	anger	someone does something wrong which affects me negatively.
183	sadness	I think about my parents getting old.
184	guilt	"I do not have the time for other people's problems.  My   mother-in-law is sometimes depressed and I do not have the time,   the desire or the strength to help."
185	neutral	"An ex-colleague asked me if I was interested in working in their   accounts bureau.  They needed ""clever people"" and he had   ""immediately thought of me."""
186	fear	I was driving and a deer suddenly appeared in front of the   car there was a lot of traffic behind me.
187	anger	I saw a report on T.V news on apartheid in South Africa. 
188	fear	I nearly collided with another car.
189	anger	The time someone let the air out of the tyres of my cycle.
190	sadness	I read a lot and did not remember anything.
191	guilt	The time that I had to put my dog to sleep.
192	sadness	Long illness.
193	neutral	I passed an exam.
194	fear	"I was travelling by tram, I tripped and fell against the   door.  I thought that I was going to fall out."
195	anger	I missed the tram after having run for it.
196	sadness	The inability to read a book at college.
197	disgust	If a guy one is not interested in makes advances.
198	shame	I drink wine too often.
199	guilt	I do not study enough as I do not understand it properly.
200	neutral	I worked at a lawyer's office during Summer and I got a very   good reference from him.
201	fear	I had been watching a triller a dark night in the country and I   had to go the outside toilet on my own. 
202	anger	"I am accused of something I have not done, I get unbelievably   angry."
203	sadness	"I began to read a thick book, which I had a limited time to   read.  Also I have a lot of work to do and I cannot keep up."
204	disgust	Someone vomited on the street.
205	shame	"I can not think of any incident I have felt very ashamed.    There are small incidents that I am ashamed of, for instance,   not sending money to the children in Ethiopia."
206	neutral	I was finally qualified for my profession.
207	fear	Someone attacked me with a knife.
208	anger	Someone drove into my car and then denied that it had happened.
209	sadness	I was told that my friend's wife had cancer.
210	disgust	I saw a dog which had been knocked down by a car.
211	shame	I boxed my child's ears.
212	guilt	I was fined for speeding.
213	neutral	I stopped working (had a boring job).
214	fear	"I was going home by car late one night it was cold, dark and   windy.  I became rather panicky on the way to my house."
215	anger	Quarrel in the family.
216	sadness	I am alone in a room with no contact with anyone -   loneliness drains me.
217	disgust	I was on holiday someone vomited in front of me.
218	shame	Emptied a bucket of water in a hospital.
219	guilt	I feigned sick leave from work.
220	neutral	I get a hug from someone I love.
221	fear	I was driving very fast on a small road and I met an oncoming car   in a right handed bend.  The other driver was on his own side of   the road and I had to skid out of it to avoid a collision.  It   was dark.
222	anger	My car had been towed away by the traffic police because it had   been wrongly parked.  However the sign had been put up only after   I had already parked.
223	sadness	After an operation I had to stay in bed for a long time.
224	disgust	I was forced to stay in the canteen and eat the food that I had   not asked for but got it anyway.
225	shame	I did not buy what I had promised to.
226	guilt	By mistake I took a book from the library which was not supposed   to be loaned out.
227	neutral	I won an unexpected sum of money.
228	fear	My 2 year old daughter disappeared in a moment of inattention; I   was responsible for her.
229	anger	A colleague asked me for some advice and as he did not have   enough confidence in me he asked a third person.
230	sadness	"I wanted to be pregnant and did not succeed, so I was depressed      at every menstruation."
231	disgust	"In a warm bus full of people, someone vomited and the whole bus   stank."
232	shame	"I complained about a colleague's behaviour as she goes back on   her word, is often absent and is irresponsible.  I found out that   she was an alcoholic and was trying to fight againt her   addiction."
233	guilt	I spoke to my mother on the phone.  She had skin cancer and was   waiting to be operated.  I forgot to ask her the date of the   operation and just before finishing our conversation she gave me   the date in passing. 
234	neutral	I was at a party I met an old friend from an adult   education course.  We had not met for 2 years but had both thought   a lot about each other.  A wonderful experience.  
235	fear	"I was cycling through the park late one night, two people   jumped out of the woods and tried to stop me.  There were   shouting something at the same time."
236	anger	close relatives tried to dissuade me from studying   Psychology because of its low status.
237	sadness	I had a long discussion on politics with an acquaintance.  He   was more knowledgeable than me and I failed to explain my point   of view and was misunderstood so I felt depressed and left.
238	disgust	I read a newspaper article on a young girl who had been   raped and assaulted one night by several men she was unconscious.
239	shame	My mother revealed personal details about me and the   negative aspects of my character to other people I was   present but unable to defend myself.
240	guilt	I was unfaithful to my partner once he was working abroad   for a long period.
241	neutral	I recently got an appartment in central Gottenburg.
242	fear	I saw a large spider crawling up the wall.
243	anger	My employer took too many aspirins for a bad back and also drank   an enormous amount of spirit.  This was dangerous  and he did   not understand that he had done anything wrong.
244	sadness	"I left New York, and all my family and my friends behind me."
245	disgust	I slept with a guy because my best friend wanted me to.    He had never had intercourse with anyone and had a terrible   complex about it.
246	neutral	my son returned from mountaineering - healthy in body and   soul.
247	fear	one meets new people with whom one is forced to collaborate   with.
248	sadness	I feel sad about an event I can not influence.
249	disgust	"a member of the family complains about the food that is   served, it disgusts me."
250	neutral	I was informed that I had been accepted as a student of   Psychology.
251	fear	I was in a little fishing boat and we ran into hard weather   in the open sea.
252	anger	I found out that the guy I was dating at a particular time   had a steady relationship going on with someone else for a long   time.
253	sadness	I felt sad and depressed I heard that our cat had died.
254	disgust	"I was working as a nurse in a mental hospital, a patient ate   up the contents of another patient's spitoon."
255	shame	"At primary school, I vomited in front of others in the middle    of a lesson."
256	guilt	I arrived an hour late for an important meeting ( I had   misunderstood the time).
257	neutral	I was acceptted as a student of psychology.
258	fear	my son has a pain in his leg (for no apparent reason).  
259	anger	"When, after a week at school, a teacher sent a note home saying   that my son was inattentive and unable to do his lessons."
260	sadness	I thought that it was going to be impossible for me to start   studying (due to wrong information from the student advisor).
261	disgust	"At a certain person's lack of cleanliness, at home and   personally."
262	shame	"I made the same mistake that I had accused someone else of, and   this was obvious to a third pereson."
263	guilt	I lost something that was valuable to my sister.
264	neutral	my son was born.
265	fear	I nearly drowned in icy water wearing ice skates.  It was   difficult to get out.
266	anger	I was pointed out as a problem child in primary school and   my mother took the teacher's point of view.
267	sadness	I was accused of neglecting work for the wrong reasons.
268	disgust	"My parents attitude towards each other they should become   reconciled, despite my father's long-time addiction."
269	shame	I was caught stealing money from my father.
270	guilt	I stole a coconut cake from a reception table and I put   in my mouth I realized that the host was watching me.
271	neutral	"after 10 months of national service I was ""downgraded"" and   did not have to do the remaining 5 months."
272	fear	I was reprimanded by the manager of the hotel where I   worked during Autumn 1984.
273	anger	my parents drove me to a nearby place and went home   immediately instead of waiting a few hours.  They could have   easily waited.
274	disgust	I was about to clean the draining board and saw it looked   underneath the sink (I live in a students hostel).
275	shame	my mother caught me masturbating.
276	guilt	"As the only person in my family into academics, I ought to have   looked after my younger (and only) sister better, with respect to   her education and life experiences."
277	fear	Slept in a chapel and in the middle of the night I realized that   there was someeone else in the chapel.  I never discovered who   it was and why he was there.
278	anger	"we were in high school a few guys sometimes provoked a   friend of mine.  They called her a pig and then grunted.  This   irritated most of the girls.  Once, one of the girls got angry at   my friend and said something nasty and this made me terribly   angry."
279	disgust	A mother who shouts at her child for nothing.
280	shame	"I complained to my mother about how untidy the kitchen   loooked, she boxed my ears ( this had never happened before)."
281	guilt	"As I could not be home before midnight I called home at 11.30 and   asked them to leave the door open so that I could get in.  I   actually woke up the whole family by calling them so late.  My   mother could not go back to sleep, besides she had a conference     the next day and really needed to sleep."
282	neutral	I got through the first day here at the department.
283	fear	I was cycling past a parked car someone opened the door and   nearly pushed me off my bike and into the traffic.
284	sadness	I had to leave my mother and my sister after a week's visit.
285	disgust	I saw a big spider from very close.
286	shame	I asked a friend to return the money that I had loaned her   and then remembered that she had repayed me in several ways.
287	guilt	one of my parents insinuates something about the other   (they are divorced).
288	neutral	i was asked to be a child's godmother.
289	fear	On the way down a ski slope which was difficult and steep.
290	anger	my mother interfered in my life.
291	sadness	I was left alone one week-end without being prepared for   it.
292	disgust	The first time that I saw a surgeon cut off a leg and put it in a   black rubbish bag.
293	shame	I forgot about a meeting at work.
294	guilt	I demand too much from my friends.
295	neutral	my husband suddenly came to see me at my new job and   brought some flowers and cake with him.
296	fear	I was nearly attackad by a man who had been chasing me.
297	anger	"my father asked me if I was a communist, at the same time he   made it clear that I should no longer see myself as his daughter."
298	sadness	"I applied for a job which I thought I had a good chance of   getting, I was not even granted an interview and did not get the   job."
299	disgust	T.V features showing the violation of defenceless people.
300	shame	I as a child of 9 or 10 I was playing doctor with the   neighbours boys their mother caught us.
301	guilt	my husband talked about the restrictions he will have to   accept in his life to make our marriage work.  I felt that it was   directed at me as it was me who had demanded the changes.  We   were with a marriage counsellor then.
302	neutral	we were able to afford a new sofa - a leather one which cost   SEK 20000.  I had waited for it for 2-3 years.
303	fear	Vertigo - standing on a ladder and painting the house.
304	anger	my boss enrolled in a course to satisfy his own ends - to   trample on his associates.  I have the misfortune to have one of   my superiors in my course.
305	sadness	I argue with my mother about the way she treats her two   children differently.
306	disgust	Spit and vomit.
307	shame	Spots on the seat covers of my husband's car.
308	guilt	Not speaking to my sister-in-law due to lack of interest in a   relationship on my side.
309	neutral	"I recently managed to get my first consulting assignment   ""myself"" i.e on my own initiative."
310	fear	I was within a hair's breadth of knocking down a drunkard who   suddenly ran into the street.  The fear came later I       realized what could have happened.
311	anger	"my friend, as usual, forgot the tickets at home for a   performance.  We missed it."
312	sadness	"The elections of 1982 and 1985.  The thought of what a social   democrat and communist majority could achieve, especially ""worker   share"" funds and its extension."
313	disgust	"A study visit to a chicken factory : the butchery, the smell,   the environment and the noise."
314	shame	Confession to my parents about my involvement in a moped theft.
315	guilt	"[ No answer as I see very little difference between shame and   guilt.  Therefore see answer for ""shame"".]"
316	neutral	I was appointed to position of trust in a group set up to   change the working environment.
317	fear	I was alone in a cottage I often stay in.  I was woken up by a   rustling sound in the middle of the night.
318	anger	"I tried to explain to a plumber, face to face, that the   toilet was broken and he did not believe it (it had been mended   ten times)."
319	sadness	the result of a project work was treated nonchalantly   intead of being criticized by the teacher.
320	disgust	programmes on violence or pornography are shown on T.V.
321	shame	I talked maliciously about a colleague at work to someone   else.  Immediately afterwards I felt ashamed.
322	guilt	I decided to take a week s holiday without consulting the   family first.
323	neutral	After my girl and I talked things over our relationship changed   and became positive.  A diificult time turned into pleasant one.
324	fear	we could not land our plane and we knew that the fuel was   running out.  Bad weather had already frightened us.
325	anger	I read about Reagan's tactical decision concerning the   South African boycott.
326	disgust	A film were a woman was attacked and raped.  One did not see the   worst but it had the desired effect - very strong.
327	shame	I made a comment and it was interpreted completely differently   from what I had meant.  I said it I realized how my mother   had understood it.
328	neutral	"I was offered a high position of trust, which I later   accepted."
329	fear	I had the window open and the door was shut so that the kitten   would not go out.  My partner came in and started talking about   something and I forgot about the window and suddenly I saw the   kitten hanging from the window frame. I was rigid with fright   till I got hold of her.
330	anger	Some noisy guests arrived at the hotel.  I had been slightly   irritated earlier.  At night I was trying to sleep they were   having a party so I went and yelled at them.  I wanted to sleep   as I had to get up early the next day.
331	sadness	I was told that I had not been successful in getting the job I   had been expecting.  I was sure that I was sufficiently   qualified.
332	disgust	my cat vomited and a worm came out which was still alive.  I   was forced to wipe it up.
333	shame	I was a child it was found out that I had taken off my   clothes outdoors.  It was summer and my friend and I were out   in the woods.  It had felt exciting at that time.  My parents   discovered that my trousers were back to front and I felt   ashamed.
334	guilt	I stole money from my mother and she asked me later if I was   responsible.  I never admitted it.
335	neutral	"[ Cycling in the spring sunshine gives me such delight.    Happiness is to be healthy, my wonderful finance.  Simply being   here on earth.]"
336	fear	"my relationship with my family is very poor I often fear   being excluded from the group, a fear which is stronger in   situations an argument is on hand."
337	anger	"Recently my sister, who is four years younger than me and   very spoiled, shouted at my mother for no apparent reason .  The   heart-broken expression on my mother's face made me feel very   angry."
338	sadness	"I watched the T.V programme called ""The living planet"" and   saw the far reaching environmental destruction caused by man."
339	disgust	"Disgust is a feeling that I have never experienced with peoplie   but , on the other hand, it has been with repulsive animals, i;e   snakes on T.V."
340	shame	"relatives have acted strangely, and unfriendly towards me."
341	guilt	",due to hunger and tiredness, I became generally irritated   with my fiancee and made cutting remarks which really hurt him.    Later I realized that my unfounded irritation had hurt the person   I love most on earth."
342	neutral	"On a boat trip to Denmark, 14 of us had a lot of fun and we   spent SEK 10 each on one armed bandits and against all odds we   won the jackpot of SEK 1000."
343	fear	"A rainy day, I was cycling downhill and a car door suddenly   opened and while trying to avoid it the back wheels of my bike   got caught in the tram tracks.  I somersaulted but had no   injuries."
344	anger	On the way home from Marstrand I was driving behind my father's   car.  Another car tried to push in front of my father and he was   forced to swerve and he thus collided the car with a pillar.  The   other car drove off without even seeing what had happened.
345	disgust	At the police centre a man between 40-50 was brought in.  He was   very drunk and in all likelihood had not slept indoors for a long   time and had relieved himself in his trousers.
346	shame	A customer at the shop where I worked came in and asked if the   goods that he had ordered had arrived.  I had totally   forgotten about this order and I tried to offer weak excuses.
347	guilt	I was 4-5 years old I hid the bicycle keys of a not very   good friend.  After a few hours I pretended that I had found   it.
348	neutral	I was at the end-of-term party last week and had fun - was   happy and sang and drank only soft drinks.  It is possible to   have a good time without alcohol.
349	fear	Last Summer I was walking along the beach in a bikini and an   awful man came cycling after me.  He was shouting and I ran as   fast as my legs could carry me.
350	anger	In a course I thought that I deserved good marks but I only got   ordinary marks with no justification as to why I was given these   marks.
351	sadness	I crashed my car and it had to be scrapped then.  It was my   fault and I feel depressed as I miss the car.
352	disgust	"I had some sort of a stomach virus last week and  I vomited in   college in the morning, then in the cake shop, three times during   the trip home and again I got home."
353	guilt	Many years ago a friend wanted me to with her to southern Europe   and I preferred to travel alone.  I felt guilty because I wanted   to go on my own.
354	neutral	I felt that my love was returned.
355	fear	I was convinced that someonne had broken into my flat and I   woke up and heard sounds that frightened me.
356	sadness	I feel helpless after having tried to help someone without   any result.
357	disgust	I think now about the way my father behaved filing a   divorce.
358	shame	"as an 8 year old, I wet myself in school."
359	guilt	"as a 7 year old, I stole money from my mother."
360	neutral	I recently got a very positive answer from a clinic telling   me that they would willingly assist and collect data for me for a   clinical pilot study.
361	fear	Every time I meet a certain dog that has once bitten me.
362	anger	after a lot of provocation my child threw a plate on the   floor.
363	sadness	I realized that I could not communicate properly with my   closest friend.
364	disgust	I tried to explain to my child as to why there were   magazines wiith naked girls on them at the kiosk.
365	shame	I stole a packet of cigarettes from a neighbour  and the   next day I owned up and returned it.
366	neutral	"I began dansing, the teacher came and told me that I was   very good and would soon get into the ballet academy. "
367	fear	"A late Saturday night I found myself locked in the central   underground station of Stockholm with a group of 50 hard rockers   who were drunk and equipped with various kinds of chains, etc."
368	anger	"I was forced to call the telephone company about a bill   concerning a disconnected phone belonging to my landlord.  The   bill was four months overdue and in the meanwhile he had been   using my phone, he seemed to have no intention of having his own   phone reconnected."
369	sadness	Whenever I read or think about the way people treat animals and   nature.
370	disgust	I saw a T.V programme on animals in the film world   (mistreated and used).
371	guilt	"I ""hated"" one of mmy flatmates who was nice to me."
372	neutral	my 6 month old son is happy and well.
373	fear	A four year girl ran away from her father straight in front of my   car.  I was forced to use the emergency brakes.
374	anger	[ After an examine I had been satisfied with.]
375	sadness	a colleague failed to contact me at the arranged time.
376	disgust	I read racist slogans on the walls.
377	shame	About Sweden's arms exports.
378	guilt	Not doing something I had promised.
379	neutral	I gave birth to a healthy boy.
380	fear	my husband and I spent a night by ourselves in a house which   was in an area on the outskirts of a large town with which we were    not familiar.  We  heard strange noises outside the house and the    house had glass walls so the whole thing was even more   frightening.
381	sadness	my daughter had problems with her friends and I could see   her predicament from the window.  She was given a the cold   shoulder.
382	disgust	"I was an auxiliary nurse at the hospital and I had to change   the nappies, for the first time, of a very old and sick woman."
383	shame	friends found out that I had been lying about where I had   been on a particular occasion.
384	neutral	my husband and I decided to take a few days holiday after a   particularly trying period.
385	fear	Before a hospital visit prior to a D&C under anasthesia for an   expected miscarriage.
386	anger	Exchange of points of view with my sister on a family matter.
387	sadness	Treatment to become pregnant with a negative result.
388	disgust	"I woke up one morning and went to the kitchen I discovered   that our dog had diarrhoea.  There were small ""piles"" all over   the floor and the smell was choking."
389	shame	"I was young, about 6 or 7, I did not make it to the toilet   on time.  I hid the dirty trousers in the cellar as I feared it  being discovered by my parents."
390	guilt	At work a boy was injured because of my lack of supervision.
391	neutral	I gave birth to a child and saw that it was normal it   was put against my breast.
392	fear	During labour the foetal sounds became faint and there was a   big alert for a forceps delivery.
393	anger	"At a cash desk where I had gone to buy 16 rolls of kitchen paper   at a reduced price.  After queuing with screaming children; it   turned out that I had taken two 8 roll packets instead of the one   16 roll packet to which the rebate applied.  The assistant said   ""You will have to get it another time."""
394	sadness	I first heard that Tage Dannielsson had died.
395	disgust	The lift of Stockholm central station stank of vomit and urine.
396	shame	On the train a drunk person touched my baby and I reacted very   disapprovingly.  I felt ashamed later as the person had not been   aggressive though he could have been.
397	guilt	I get irritated with my son he screams or is sick all over   his clean clothes.
398	neutral	The high school entrance exam.
399	fear	"A gang of screaming and drunk youths ""captured"" a tram."
400	disgust	I was dominated by a certain person and even though I knew it I   could not change my own reactions.
401	shame	I was given detention at secondary school.
402	guilt	I splashed a child by not slowing down while driving   through a puddle of water.
403	neutral	"Yesterday, the final whistle blew at the final match between   OIS and IFK and it was certain that OIS had won the Swedish   title."
404	fear	I was teaching someone to drive and we were about to crash I   was scared.
405	anger	A drummer who had borrowed my drums destroyed both the drumskin   and the sticks.  He did not repair them nor did he tell me about   it.
406	disgust	A friend unjustly put the blame on me to relieve his conscience   and also spread lies for the same purpose.
407	shame	"My behaviour at a recent party.  I passed out early, luckily."
408	guilt	I was face to face with my deceived friend after sleeping   with his wife.
409	neutral	"I dived among sharks and the brightly coloured fish on the   outer reef of Tvavni, Fidgi."
410	fear	"I missed crashing, by a hair's breadth, into a man who came   out 20 metres ahead of me I was driving at 110km/h."
411	anger	I told off a computer teacher who did not want to teach me   beacause of prejudice.
412	sadness	I could not do anything because of a bad back.
413	disgust	I discovered that the house we had hired in Tonga was full   of cockroaches.
414	shame	I excreted on the mat instead of the potty.
415	guilt	I pulled a chair from under someone at kindergarten and he   hit his head.
416	neutral	I passed the driving test three weeks ago and got my   licence.
417	fear	the car I was driving skidded on an icy road and landed in     a ditch with one side against a rock.
418	neutral	I met friends I had not seen for the last 2-4 years.
419	fear	a guy chased me I was out jogging.
420	anger	the morning newspaper has not arrived.
421	fear	A reoccurring fear that something will happen to my relatives.
422	sadness	I failed an exam last Summer.  I had worked very hard for it   and I was very disappointed thinking that it was hopeless to   continue at college.  I did overreact.
423	guilt	I argue with my sister.  It feels sometimes that I have the   upper hand and I use it.  I often argue better and this makes her   terribly angry.
424	neutral	I was very happy I got an attractive Summer job.
425	neutral	The birth of my child.
426	fear	"I have to leave the baby in the carriage and go shopping, I   fear that something will happen to the baby."
427	anger	during Winter the water pipes froze and we did not have any   water for two days.
428	sadness	I did not quite succeed in breast feeding my baby.
429	disgust	 The smell of garlic in rush-hour bus.
430	shame	"I fell on the ground while crossing the street.  My cap covered   my eyes and I felt quite ""difficult""."
431	neutral	"During the Christmas holidays, I met some of my old friends,   after not having seen them for six months."
432	fear	"We were driving a car of a friend of mine we turned in the   wrong direction towards an unknown district, and nearly drove   down a precipice."
433	anger	our religion teacher presented shocking sectarian thoughts   and doom's day as official teaching.
434	sadness	"My grandfather died, I was an exchange student in the USA."
435	disgust	"I happened to see the video-tape movie ""This is America - Part   one"" at my friend's place."
436	shame	"I insulted a couple of good friends of mine and even tried to hit   them I was drunk.  The next day, I was ashamed of course."
437	guilt	I stole carrots and got caught.  I had to apologize to the owner.
438	neutral	"In the underground's escalator, a youngish bum asked me for   money.  Although I did not give him anything, the fellow told me   that I was really good-looking.  A man who was in front of me   also turned to look at me."
439	fear	I was afraid of moving away from home and moving to Helsinki for   my studies.
440	anger	"In the student kitchen that we share, somebody drank from my   juice pot (one litre) so that I only got one glass out of the   whole pot."
441	disgust	"During the week-end at home, my mother fries greasy and unhealthy   meat dishes which make me feel sick."
442	shame	I was wearing slippery shoes and I tumbled down in a place where   there were many people walking by.
443	guilt	"I ate a Runeberg's cake, though I knew that I would immediately   put on a kilo."
444	fear	"At about nine p.m., I went home by bike on a dark cycle-track;   because of lack of time I had to take the short-cut."
445	fear	Once I had to go home on foot at 5 a.m. I had to pass through a   forest and I was going alone.
446	anger	I missed the train and had to wait for the next for two hours.   For this reason I missed an appointment which had been very   important for me.
447	disgust	"I went home by train from Sicilia, I was molested by a man."
448	shame	I lied to someone and some time later this person found out that   I had not told him the truth.
449	guilt	I had to decline an appointment which had been very important for   the other person. For this reason we even got into trouble.
450	neutral	"A person with whom I had been on bad terms, gave me a present. We   became reconciled."
451	fear	"A friend's father had died, I was to come and see this friend   although I did not know his family."
452	anger	I was watching TV with a friend. After the first film I wanted to   watch another film on the same channel. My friend switched over   to the other cannel without asking me what I wanted.
453	sadness	My boy-friend an I seperated on his initiative.
454	disgust	"A friend's boy-friend treated her very badly, let her serve him,   provoked her and just utilized her."
455	shame	I had lied to a person because I had thought that I could not   tell him the truth. he found out he was not angry but   understanding. We talked the whole thing over.
456	guilt	I had told a person unpleasant things in a bad manner. He was   very depressed and caused an accident.
457	neutral	After having considered it for hours I was able to overcome my   scruples and to call a friend with whom I had fallen in love. I   realized that my decision was right - and was very glad.
458	fear	After having slept for a short time I woke up - I had the feeling   of someone standing beside me and was very frightened. I had to   turn on the light turn on the light for several minutes before I   was able to get to sleep again.
459	anger	"I moved to a flat. A friend who had lived there before, had left   the flat in a terrible mess. I was very angry about that   sloppiness and impudence."
460	sadness	"My father had a complicated operation. A long time before and   also a long time after that, we did not know how he would get   over it. During all that time I felt very sad."
461	disgust	It was in a tramway-carriage: A stranger insulted a girl just   because she blew her nose. I detested his behaviour.
462	shame	"Quite recently I realized that I had had some erroneous views   about life. For instance, I had always lived for other people,   had forgotten my own person and suppressed my own feelings. I was   ashamed because I had not been concious of that until I had a   conversation about it with a person."
463	guilt	I had a quarrel with near persons. I said many ill-considered   things and I regretted it it was to late.
464	neutral	In summer I was sailing with friends in Greece I felt neutral.
465	fear	I was riding with a friend in his car. At a speed of 120 km/h on   the snow-covered motorway I would have liked to get out.
466	guilt	Meeting a male friend with whose wife I was having an affair.
467	neutral	"Walking along the beach with a friend (another girl), talking,   picking up shells, laughing, chasing seagulls."
468	fear	"Climbing a mountain to see a view, towards the top we suddenly   came across a ledge with a nearly sheer drop on either side,   which I had to cross."
469	anger	"A friend suggested in a round-about way that the reason we were   late for something was because of me, and that I'm often late. I   know this was partly true, but felt it unjustified that   particular time and I felt I couldn't do  anything about it   anyway (i.e. being late)."
470	sadness	Talking to a very good friend who had just had a very bad   experience which was changing his whole way of looking at life   etc.
471	disgust	I came across a group of people with the same basic ideas/beliefs   who were all fighting and going against what they would say was   good.
472	shame	"I was working in a job in which I could not work quickly enough,   and was told that my work was not up to standard."
473	guilt	I had wasted some time instead of doing something I needed to do   to give to a friend. (Also in the time I wasted I had done some   things I did not consider morally right).
474	neutral	On meeting an old friend of mine.
475	anger	During a fight with my best friend.
476	sadness	my dog died.
477	disgust	During a movie in which I saw the effect of white settlers in   Africa.
478	shame	I got a bad result for one of my assignments.
479	guilt	Leaving a friend of mine alone at a dance - I felt I should have   kept her company.
480	neutral	"I realised that I was forgiven by the God who is there,   I realised how much God loves me and that my acceptance with him   is not based on my performance - that he loves me unconditionally   and showed that love in Christ who died because I do need   forgiveness."
481	fear	"Fear - paralysing - that I would not be accepted by the God who I   believed to be there because I was ""morally bankrupt"" (before   becoming a Christian and realising that that was why Christ came to   free us from sin and to forgive us)."
482	anger	"At my father's treatment of my mother, at his disregard for her,   and not being committed to her."
483	sadness	"At a lack of love of my father for my mum, sadness for him more   than anyone else because he does not realise how much love and   happiness there could be between them, and is, and how much he is   damaging himself apart from mum."
484	guilt	"For the above: guilt at not living up to my own moral   expectation, guilt for not being the type of person my patents   wanted, guilt for just about bloody everything, just realising   that I have failed drastically in my own eyes."
485	fear	"I was rock-climbing and absailing & felt OK, but suddenly as I   was going over the cliff I was hit by fear - I couldn't go on   absailing down the cliff and had to be actually hauled back up   it."
486	anger	"I told my boy friend not to park in a certain place because the   car would ger towed away - he didn't listen and it was towed away.   At that stage, our finances were below the poverty line & it   cost us $10.00 - all the money we had to get us through that week   (including rent)."
487	sadness	My sister won a scholarship to Norway and it was particularly as   she walked across the tarmac to get on the plane and she looked   back at us.
488	disgust	I work part-time as a shop-assistant and a customer spoke to me   very loudly about an Indian man & white woman with children - how   horrible that was and would I want to have little dark children.
489	shame	"My mother told my uncle who is a Roman Catholic Priest   (Redemptist Father) that I had been living in a de-facto   relationship for three years. He was very, very angry at me."
490	guilt	"I ""snapped"" very abruptly at my mother she said something   silly and stupid, (in front of other people) she looked so   defenceless & hurt & told them that I'm always doing that."
491	neutral	"I received a wedding invitation from an ex-flatmate, enclosed was   a small note that overcame a lot of the differences that had   arisen between us due to the circumstances in which she left the   flat."
492	fear	"One afternoon, helping at home on the property, I was   (mustering) getting in cattle and a bull turned and came for me."
493	anger	"Getting a terrible exam mark, which I couldn't understand the   reason for, and trying to see a lecturer or tutor, but being   given the runaround."
494	sadness	"Watching an old lady running up the street to catch her bus and   miss it, it reminded me of my own mother and how dreadful it   would be to be her in the same situation."
495	disgust	"Coming home one night - my sister was home, and had been drinking   heavily and started picking arguments."
496	fear	I am travelling by car and have to meet an oncoming car   while overtaking.
497	anger	a close relative is treated badly.
498	sadness	a close friend died.
499	disgust	I saw all the starving people in Ethiopia on T.V.  It felt   awful to see such suffering.
500	guilt	a mistake occurred at work which I was not responsible for.    This was disclosed later.
501	fear	Last Summer in Italy I was attacked by a dog.It was terrible to   feel that untidy dirty dog against my naked skin.
502	sadness	"the guy I was in love with told me that he had met someone   else and that we would not meet again for a year.  Although we   did not have a steady relatioship, we were having an affair."
503	neutral	my love for a guy was returned.
504	disgust	my uncle comes (3 times a year) for the traditional   Christmas dinner with my grandparents and other relatives and is   very drunk.
505	fear	my mother's heart nearly stopped.
506	anger	"There was a sofa in my flat which belonged to the old tenants who   were acquaintances.  It should have been picked up a year ago but   they had postponed it.  Eventually they decided on one date and I   stayed at home despite the fact that I had other things to do.    They did not come, nor did they call and they still have not got   in touch with me."
507	disgust	"Very intoxicated men who incite each other to fight.   I met a   vile smelling man on the tram who got closer and closer to me   till I got up, then he got angry."
508	guilt	my nephew asked me to tell him a story and I simply did not   have the energy or the will.  I saw his disappointment I was   terribly guilty and read a story to him after all.
509	neutral	I fell in love.
510	fear	"Earlier, I was afraid of speaking in front of a crowd of people."
511	anger	A girl I was with went off with another guy.
512	sadness	At set-backs.
513	disgust	I worked in a harbour and emptied latrine containers from the   back of the lorries.
514	shame	The day after the night I drank too much at a party.
515	neutral	I was accepted as a student of Psychology here at   Gutttenburg.
516	fear	I woke up in the middle of the night as I had jumped and shouted   with fear.  I thought that someone's cold hand or something   similar had touched my hand.  I crept down under the covers and   went back to sleep.
517	guilt	I broke off with my partner as I wanted him as a friend and not   as a lover.  He reacted very violently and I felt guilty as I   had made him so desperately unhappy.
518	neutral	I made dinner for some friends and they appreciated it very much.
519	fear	I was nearly knocked down while I was cycling.
520	anger	My father and I had an argument because I do not help enough at   home.
521	disgust	I had intercourse with someone and then I realized that what I   had done was wrong and it disgusted me.
522	guilt	I said nasty things which I did not mean to a friend.
523	neutral	After intercourse.
524	fear	Disappointment over a friend.
525	sadness	I woke up after a nightmare.
526	disgust	Helping older people on the toilet.
527	guilt	Squeezed the puppy in the door.
528	neutral	I was notified that I had been accepted as a Psychology   student.
529	fear	Motor failure on a boat outside Gottenburg we were in heavy    seas and the wind was strong.  As we could not steer the boat we   drifted towards the rocks.  We did not succeed in attracting the   attention of any passerby until 4 hours had elapsed.
530	anger	A lady I live with had not bothered to clean up before she went     on holiday (I live in a collective).
531	sadness	I heard that a good friend had committed suicide.
532	disgust	I was present they found a shop-keeper dead in his shop.    He had been shot with a shotgun at close range.
533	shame	[ I do not remember I last felf ashamed.  I do not usually   feel ashamed of what I do.]
534	guilt	My mother accused me of not visiting her enough she was in   hospital for an eye operation.
535	neutral	"After I had made my debut at Ullevi against IFK, Gottenburg and   got a good write up in the paper."
536	fear	"I was 7-8 years old, I woke up one night and found myself   alone at home.  My mother had gone out to buy cigarattes from a   machine."
537	disgust	"I was touring Asia with my present football team, I saw old   Europeans with young asiatic prostitutes."
538	fear	After mischieviously ringing on the chemist's trade-entrance   doorbell and getting caught by him.
539	anger	The sight of a man who ran amok (fighting) at a dance.
540	sadness	out of work.
541	disgust	"With my mouth full of bun, I drank directly from a packet of milk   which turned out to be weeks old (completely separated).  It took   a while for the milk to seep through the bun."
542	guilt	A boy who shot dead a squirrel.
543	neutral	I was accepted as supervisor for a student teacher.  The   notification came by post.
544	fear	"I was involved in a car accident last November, after the   first fall of snow.  I lost control of the car and it spun round   and landed on the opposite side of the road, on the hard   shoulder.  It was stopped by a pole on top of a bank sloping down   to a stream."
545	sadness	A colleague's 17 year old daughter is seriously ill with cancer   and has only a year to live.  I  heard about it 6 weeks ago.
546	neutral	"a close friend met me at the station in the middle of the   night, I came back from a long and tiring journey."
547	anger	Someone didn't show up at a meeting in spite of having agreed to   come.
548	sadness	"I understood that my marriage was falling apart, and we   decided to be legally separated."
549	disgust	"At an anti-pornography meeting, samples from films and   magazines were shown."
550	shame	Comments from other children on my alcoholic father
551	guilt	"Having failed to help with the 5th of March arrangements (Women's   Day), although I had previously promised to take part in the   work."
552	neutral	"I was able to buy my new car, after lots of problems."
553	fear	"After my car accident, I woke up in a heap of stones."
554	anger	"I tried to put up a tent some years ago, I was teased and   hindered by my cousin."
555	sadness	my grandfather died.
556	shame	"Hit a dog with my car, and didn't stop."
557	guilt	"Car accident. I let a 16-year old, incompetent parson take the   wheel and I feel very guilty about what happened even though I   suffered the worst injuries."
558	neutral	I was admitted to a certain school as a student.
559	fear	My father has a chronic desease. In the autumn of 1983 he had a   very strong fit or seizure.
560	anger	"A drunken friend of mine was beating up another friend, who was   also drunk."
561	sadness	I didn't get a certain job at Lillehammer which I wanted   very much.
562	disgust	My boss on the job failed to keep his promise about something he   knew was extremely important to me.
563	shame	An exam where questions about very specific knowledge were asked.
564	guilt	I hit my little sisiter on the head with a stone while we were   fighting.
565	neutral	"my father managed to begin a ""new life"" after the divorce   from my mother; resulting in a new little sister for me."
566	fear	"A ""near-accident"" in a car, driving too fast on an icy road."
567	sadness	"Being bored in school, not being able to marry and have children."
568	shame	Stealing from my mother's purse I was a little boy.
569	neutral	"I was in hospital, and then was visited by someone quite   unexpected."
570	fear	"I was hunting, and was lost in the fog in the mountains."
571	anger	"I was accused of a misdemeanour, unjustly."
572	disgust	Slaughtering of animals.
573	shame	"I entered the wrong room, and got into a bed where someone   already was sleeping."
574	guilt	I failed to show up at an agreed date.
575	neutral	"I finally managed to get a specific sound from my guitar,   after baving tried for a long time."
576	fear	"Climbing a mountain, I got stuck and realized I could get neither   up nor down."
577	anger	Meeting generally dominating persons in social occasions.
578	sadness	"Discovering that Lillehammer provided no musical environment that   suits my taste, even though I had been told so."
579	disgust	Can't describe any disgust situation.
580	shame	the cast general election resulted in Norway getting a   conservative government.
581	guilt	A friend of mine shot himself through the head after having told   me and others that he would do so.
582	neutral	my children were born.
583	fear	I almost ran over a small boy who suddenly was in front of   my car.
584	anger	"my father phoned me to come home from my vacation, since he   no longer had the time to look after my garden and animals."
585	sadness	I was told that a good friend was seriously ill.
586	disgust	I learned that a relative had been spreading rumours about   me.
587	shame	"I was talking badly about a person to some friends, and   discovered that his daughter was listening."
588	guilt	"my ex-husband left our house, and the children cried because   he was not coming back."
589	neutral	"my special friend said ""I love you"" for the first time."
590	fear	"After having watched a crime show on the TV, I was about to take   the dog for a walk. Then, suddenly, there was a man on the   porch... (We live some distance away from other people)."
591	anger	my car suddenly broke down !
592	sadness	an earlier friend was spreading negative rumours about me.
593	disgust	"There is a certain person, whom I only have seen. He makes me   cringe, feel disgust."
594	shame	Cheating to get the best grade on a test in 7th grade.
595	guilt	"A kitten had wandered into our office, and I was told to take it   back across the street. I crossed back, the kitten followed   me and was run over and killed by a car."
596	neutral	my term paper was evaluated.
597	fear	"After seeing a terror movie at the cinema, I was so scared that I   couldn't even drive the car into the garage. I often thought   about the film afterwards, hoping such things couldn't exist in   the ""real world""."
598	sadness	my gradmother died.
599	shame	I overreacted towards my mother and felt ashamed afterwards.
600	guilt	"my parents work very hard and get tired - while I go to   school and study instead of helping them. I feel that I'm letting   them down, disappointing them."
601	neutral	Got in touch with earlier friends after a long absence.
602	fear	I lost my way on a trip in the mountains.
603	anger	"Being subject to unfair treatment in a working group, someone   ""bending the rules"" was protected by the boss. This resulted in   more work for the others."
604	sadness	The death of a close friend.
605	disgust	"Was confronted with a person having negative thoughts of other   people because of their social status, beliefs, color and   outlook on life (perspective)."
606	shame	"Feeling inadequate in a group situation, being unable to convey   my own thoughts and feelings."
607	guilt	I failed to complete a working task within the agreed time.
608	neutral	Receiving a much wanted letter from a very good friend who lives   abroad.
609	fear	"Before getting back the results of a test in school, I had   worked very hard and was worried about not succeeding."
610	anger	"One of my best friends accused me of giving up to early on   problems. It was only a casual remark on her side, but I was   angry and hurt."
611	sadness	"Realizing that school will soon be over, and we will all go   different ways, perhaps never meeting again our friends from this   year."
612	disgust	In a public swimming hall I saw a very aggressive man who   practically attacked the children who got in his way he was   swimming.
613	shame	"I was making very strong statements about infidelity in couples.   Then I discovered that one of my best friends, who had just been through   a very sad case of mutual infidelity, was listening."
614	guilt	"I had planned a trip to the South during Easter, together with a   friend. She was very sorry I changed my mind and decided not   to go after all."
615	neutral	"A friend which I hadn't seen for years, sent me a small present."
616	fear	"One dark night with no street lights, a car was obviously   following me."
617	anger	"I was subject to false accusations, and got very angry."
618	sadness	I was told by a good friend that we couldn't be friends any more   because of his relationship with another girl.
619	disgust	"This is difficult, since I don't remember feeling disgust towards   anyone."
620	shame	"If I don't go to lectures, I often feel ashamed."
621	neutral	"my fiancee travelled 2000 Km to visit me, and I hadn't seen   her for 4 months."
622	fear	"I was beaten up at a private New Year's party once, through no   fault of mine."
623	anger	"I felt unfairly treated at an airport, being told to use a   different counter (for domestic traffic only)."
624	shame	taking part in the mobbing of one of my best friends in   primary school.
625	guilt	"I secretly tried smoking for the first time, being 12 years   old."
626	neutral	"the person that I was very fond of, returned to me."
627	fear	Not applicable to myself.
628	anger	students in our working group showed no responsibility or   interest in our work.
629	sadness	A very close friend left me.
630	disgust	"Some people were unfairly treated, because of their   nationality/colour."
631	guilt	Not applicable to myself.
632	neutral	A close acquaintace cried for me. I felt happy because somebody   cared.
633	anger	"My nephew is a deaf and also ""hyperactive"" boy. I had been   responsible for looking after him for a full day, and was very   tired. Then he suddenly grabbed a knife and stabbed me in the   leg. I got so angry that I didn't feel any pain."
634	sadness	A woman I know is slowly dying from cancer. Observing this   process makes me sad.
635	disgust	Close friends talking badly of other friends.
636	shame	"My father died after two very painful weeks in bed. I felt   relieved, and was ashamed of that."
637	guilt	"We had a day off from school. Instead of helping my mother with   her job, I stayed in bed all day."
638	neutral	Renewed contact with an earlier friend.
639	fear	Fearing the use of power or reprimands I belong to the   minority.
640	anger	"A close friend first said he accepted an agreement, but later   used that agreement as a reason for attacking me."
641	disgust	"Political and military trnsgressions around the world, generally   speaking. This cannot be described through this questionaire."
642	shame	Was accused of having hidden intentions in a situation I   believed I was acting honestly and fairly.
643	guilt	"my aunt took her own life, I felt guity for not   understanding that she needed support."
644	neutral	"Receiving a postcard form my sweetheart who was abroad on   vacation, not being at all sure if he would write me or not."
645	neutral	Finding my glasses again after having lost them in town.
646	fear	Falling off a cliff in the mountains.
647	sadness	the gear broke on my car.
648	disgust	Can't remember having had this feeling.
649	shame	Can't remember that feeling.
650	guilt	I forgot to lock the outside door at my Land Lady's place.
651	neutral	I got a job right after school was over.
652	fear	Going home alone through the forest after a girl guide (scout ?)   meeting.
653	anger	I get angry people disbelieve me or misunderstand me.
654	sadness	At the death of a close relative.
655	disgust	"Having been unjustly punished, I feel disgust towards the person   responsible."
656	shame	Being caught in changing the truth (lying).
657	neutral	Having passed the exam required to be an authorized Radio/TV   dealer.
658	fear	"Climbing a mountain where the rocks were very loose. we   realized the danger, we were very high up, but still had a long   climb ahead."
659	anger	"Being a spokesman for the union, I got into a quarrel with a   colleague who had been acting disloyally over a sustained period   of time."
660	sadness	"my grandfather died, with whom I had a very close   relationship."
661	disgust	"Reading about executions and massacres which happened during   World War II, I felt disgust towards those who did it."
662	shame	"I woke up at the house of someone I knew, not remembering very   much about what had been said or done during the party on the   previous night."
663	guilt	"Borrowing a car, and then having a minor accident (breaking a   headlight)."
664	neutral	Succeeding in helping others.
665	fear	"I realized that we are living on borrowed time, and that the   nuclear holocaust appears to come closer every day."
666	anger	"others let me down, fail to keep agreements."
667	sadness	Death in the close family.
668	disgust	people manipulate others through appearing better than what   they really are.
669	shame	Participating in a theft several years ago.
670	guilt	"Feeling helpless, not being able to accomplish what I really   wanted to do."
671	neutral	I received the message that I'd been accepted at the school where I   really wanted to go.
672	fear	I came home and discovered that someone had broken in. Then I   realized that they probably were still there.
673	anger	I was accused of having drunk a bottle of liquor and then   refilling with water.
674	sadness	"Got a package from my parents, without even a small note   enclosed."
675	disgust	"Quarreling with my father, he made false assertions."
676	neutral	Winning the local soccer championships this year was a great neutral.
677	anger	colliding with my car. I myself was to blame.
678	sadness	"Not succeeding in a cross-country skiing competition, which I   intended to win."
679	disgust	Can't remember any episode of disgust.
680	shame	"I got really drunk on Norvegian Indipendence Day, and was   not allowed to participate in football (soccer) games for two   weeks. That was very unpleasant."
681	guilt	I and the boy next door set fire to a house by accident.
682	neutral	Getting the top price in the football pools.
683	fear	Was threatened with a knife ... in the military by soldiers form   another unit. The reason was girls.
684	anger	my mother treats me as a 10-year old boy.
685	sadness	Getting to know that my uncle in America had a brain tumor.
686	disgust	"Outside a night club, a grown man was sitting on top of a younger   woman, beating her up."
687	shame	"My father was a member of the public Alcohol and Drugs Board,   I was picked up by the police for being drunk in a public   place."
688	guilt	"being illoyal (disloyal) to people close to me. Had such an   episode with my sister, who should have received my support and   attention."
689	neutral	"Receiving close friends form abroad, whom I hadn't seen for   years."
690	fear	"Motorcycle accident with two people involved, running off the   road. Broke an arm, only."
691	anger	"Having agreed to share the taxi expenses, three people in the   back of the car just ran off, leaving the person up front with   the entire bill."
692	sadness	Death of a close friend.
693	disgust	Can't remember any such feelings now.
694	shame	"At a private party I literally fell into the food. The party was   completely ruined for the host, carpets had to be cleaned, etc."
695	guilt	"Accidentally dropped a friends camera flash, so that it was   broken."
696	neutral	Selling my used car.
697	fear	"Almost crashing my car, something which could have led to great   problems."
698	anger	Realizing that a friend had been talked into signing a certain   contract.
699	sadness	"Talking to a pensioned and bitter ""street order"" policeman."
700	disgust	The sadistinc exacution of a student in the USA.
701	shame	Forgetting an important appointment.
702	guilt	Not keeping a promise of delivering materials of great importance   to the receiver.
703	neutral	Managed to run 30 Km on skis fairly simply.
704	fear	Afraid I wouldn't catch the train I was going to see my   sweetheart.
705	anger	Receiving personal criticisms early in the morning.
706	sadness	Not getting a job.
707	disgust	Seeing a pornographic film looking for a place to live.
708	shame	unjustified hurting other people.
709	guilt	"The negative feelings towards me displayed by my   ""parents-in-law""."
710	neutral	Reunion with my wife after a legal separation.
711	fear	"The house was on fire, and I was saved by the dog. I am afraid of   the fire, verging on panic."
712	anger	"Physical violence. A friend wouldn't listen to me I repeatedly   tried to warn him, to no avail. Result: eight people were ""pissed   off""."
713	sadness	My father dying.
714	disgust	Maltreatment of children.
715	shame	I lost my driver's licence because of speeding.
716	guilt	"Car accident, hurt three of my closest family."
717	neutral	Relating to my closest family.
718	fear	"Thinking of the unknown, what happens at the moment of death,   etc."
719	anger	"In traffic I often get relatively angry with other drivers.   Several transgressions make me mad, especially not yielding to   priority traffic (e.g. coming from the right)."
720	sadness	"Losing close people and animals. So far, I've felt most   losing our dog in a traffic accident."
721	disgust	I feel disgust towards those who are responsible for the death of   others.
722	shame	"Talking about a person's unattractiveness, not realizing that the   person was listening."
723	guilt	"I often feel guilty, and it has to do with other people, e.g. if   I haven't visited my older relatives for a while."
724	neutral	the contract about my shop was signed.
725	fear	"Being very close to having an auto accident, almost driving off   the road."
726	anger	"Having gone to school without learning anything, as usual."
727	sadness	"My sweatheart were away on a trip, and then she got problems."
728	disgust	Overeating a traditional type of food - blood pudding.
729	shame	Forgot to do some shopping that I had promised to do.
730	guilt	I crashed my father's car.
731	neutral	Receiving a letter form a girl that means a lot to me   emotionally.
732	fear	Being close to drowning.
733	anger	Being slandered by friends.
734	sadness	Love problems.
735	disgust	Does not apply.
736	shame	"Having finally to admit I was wrong, after having denied it for a   long time."
737	guilt	Being aggressive against members of my family.
738	neutral	I won the country ski championship.
739	fear	I was scared in the dark I was a little boy.
740	anger	Angry our team (small boys) lost the county championship   football final.
741	sadness	My grandfather's death.
742	disgust	"A teacher gave me lower grades than I was entitled to, and was   hoping for."
743	shame	Was caught stealing apples in a neighbor's garden.
744	guilt	Not helping parents enough at home and at the farm - this has   happened many times.
745	neutral	"the bank let me borrow some money this winter, after my   grant was spent."
746	fear	"Once I was stopped by the police in Spain, I had some   ""grass"" in my tobacco."
747	disgust	"a ""friend"" dropped a frog down my neck, and I didn't know   what it was."
748	shame	Fighting with my father while drunk.
749	neutral	I am a school teacher. At a teacher-parent meeting I received a   good deal of positive feed-back on my work both from the parents   and through them from the pupils.
750	fear	"As a child, I was at home alone, I felt in an indefinate   manner afraid of the death of my father and mother."
751	anger	"I had a discussion with my mother concerning my sister's divorce,   we disagreed strongly."
752	sadness	As a ten-year-old I was at the funeral of my grand-father.  It was more   the ceremonies held in the church and not really the death of my   grand-father which made me sad.
753	disgust	"I had a discussion with my wife about an over-weight acquaintance of   our's, about her eating habits and the scars caused by her   pregnancy."
754	shame	I confessed to my girl-friend (now my wife) that I had   betrayed her with another woman.
755	guilt	"The same as in ""shame""."
756	neutral	[ A successful lesson.]
757	fear	[ I was thinking about death.]
758	anger	A conflict with a pupil.
759	sadness	I am at home alone.
760	disgust	A saturday night a bus full of drunken people.
761	shame	A conflict with a pupil and there were probatory teachers   present.
762	guilt	Selling the appartment after my divorce.
763	neutral	in an economic crisis I got an unexpected sum of money.
764	fear	In the dark an unreal figure formed by a shadow.
765	anger	"[ I was treated unfairly, regardless of my motives or deeds.]"
766	sadness	I noticed obvious marks of old age (in a negative sense) on   a close relative of mine.
767	disgust	"As a child, I saw an ""unesthetic"" sight."
768	shame	"On a social occasion, I noticed that I reacted on the basis of my   autonomous nerve system (I could not help it)."
769	guilt	I caused needless anxiety to a person close to me because of   my lack of self-insight.
770	neutral	I was coming home from an exam and I supposed that I had   passed it so I ran to a restaurant for a beer.
771	fear	I had been drinking with a pal and I later (1 o' clock) had a date    with my fiancee.  We were going to a Spanish lesson and I was   afraid that she would smell that I had been drinking.
772	sadness	I had drunk a couple of beers and my fiancee got angry at me.
773	disgust	We were at a hamburger bar and a man at a table nearby started   coughing and spitting into his plate.
774	shame	We got into a fight with some chaps in front of our family house.   The value of the property destroyed was approximately 15 000 FIM.   I felt ashamed my parents came to know about this.
775	guilt	We had had a party the night before and we still had some liquors   left the morning after. I went to the kitchen pretending to   prepare some tea and was caught by my fiancee pouring some rum   down my throat.
776	neutral	While dancing in a restaurant last week.
777	fear	I was on the Inter Rail in Naples alone. After an evening in a   restaurant I was going back to the hotel a prostitute   approached me to sell herself. I refused but as I carried on   walking I felt that I was being followed by someone.
778	anger	a girl left me.
779	sadness	"I was on my way back from the Inter Rail, on board the ferry from   Stockholm my father called me at 7 o'clock to tell me that my   uncle had died and that I would be seeing him off on his final   journey within four days."
780	disgust	"On Reperbahn, in a restaurant, a ""charming"" old saleswoman came   to beg a drink for herself."
781	shame	"At the funeral of my uncle, I was one of the bearers.  I was not   familiar with the etiquette and acted tactlessly because of my   ignorance."
782	guilt	"On Reberbahn, I was in a ""restaurant"" where drinks were   overpriced.  I did not ask for the prices beforehand, and   the bill came I could not pay the bill."
783	fear	"At the dentist's, waiting for my turn to come."
784	anger	"While in the army, I was treated unfairly by my superiors.  I was   held responsible for a deed of which I was innocent."
785	disgust	"In the army, an acquaintance of mine tended to use his position   to advance his own interests."
786	guilt	I spoke ill of a fellow worker in the absence of this   person.
787	neutral	I look at people around and know that people who are stupid   look stupid.
788	fear	"I saw Russian roulette on TV. (obviously the movie ""Deer   hunter"")"
789	anger	stupid people push me during rush time in the city.
790	sadness	[ Laziness makes one sad.]
791	disgust	I saw hundreds of snakes twisting over one another in a   movie.
792	shame	I saw a skid-row (chronical) alcoholic and I was ashamed of the   people with a high standard of living.
793	guilt	I shot a bird in the head with a shotgun.
794	neutral	[ Being close to another person.]
795	fear	[ Uncertainty about my own abilities in an exam.]
796	anger	[ An unfair punishment.]
797	sadness	"Loneliness, being uncertain of myself in the Autumn."
798	disgust	A rich man expressing disgust towards an alcoholic.
799	neutral	I went to a doctor with a complaint. The doctor told me that I   was completely healthy.
800	fear	"My father was away from home and he did not come back he was   expected, he came back several hours later than expected."
801	anger	"I had an implicit agreement with my sister about meeting her,   however she had not understood the situation the same way so she   did not turn up."
802	sadness	I realized that the girl I loved had to leave me.
803	disgust	In the bus I was sitting next to a colleage who was drunk and   behaved in keeping with his state.
804	shame	I had promised to help out with domestic chores and I forgot   about it.
805	guilt	I had promised to call a girl but I did not do it.
806	fear	I returned home late from a party last night and I felt afraid   trying to anticipate the reaction of my father.
807	disgust	A too eager approach by a dirty drunken person in a bus.
808	shame	I made a major mistake while learning how to use a computer programme   and the teacher criticized me.
809	guilt	"I reproached my mother's cooking and criticised her   personality, and she felt hurt and depressed."
810	neutral	I shot the decisive goal in an ice-hockey match.
811	fear	I got lost in New York city a late friday night with a   friend of mine.
812	anger	After having quarelled with a relative of mine about politics.
813	disgust	I noticed that a nice person was being exploited   economically.
814	shame	I slandered a person behind his back and he got to know about it.
815	guilt	I had quarelled with a friend of mine and I later realized that   it was also my fault.
816	neutral	I passed an exam which I was not sure at all to pass.  I reneutralced   at the result because the possibility of continuing my studies   depended on it.
817	fear	"In the traffic with a car, I nearly got crushed between a bus and   a tram.  The attention of other drivers saved me at the last moment."
818	anger	"I was disappointed and angry at the bad quality of a documentay   program on TV.  In my opinion, the topic was important and the   program should have been made with seriousness and consideration."
819	sadness	My father had a heart attack I was not at home (I was still   living with them).  He recovered relatively well although he had   to retire (which implied relief from the stress of a small scale   enterprise).
820	guilt	"I had asked the Salvation Army to take away a piece of furniture   of mine, but I forgot to cancel the agreement (a friend of mine   took it) and I thereby caused the Salvation Army people some   unnecessary work."
821	neutral	"On the cliff by the sea, the silence and the sudden voice of a   bird.(swans of the bay)"
822	fear	A dark night I had to go to the outdoor lavatory.
823	anger	I realized that I was far behind the others in the language   course and I could no longer catch up with the others.
824	sadness	"The long lasting illness of my grand-mother, and the changes in   family relationships caused by it."
825	disgust	"Spoilt, smashed and molded potatoes in the fridge, and having to   clean up the dish later."
826	shame	"A truth expressed unthinkingly at a coffee party.  I realized   later that I had been inconsiderate, at a wrong moment and the   wrong place."
827	guilt	"I did not go to the exercises, without any adequate reason."
828	fear	"While watching TV (a war movie), I felt a strong fear of death,   threat and fear of loosing people close to me."
829	anger	I was angry with a friend of mine who behaved in an affected   manner.
830	sadness	I made a long-distance call to people rather close to me and I   thought about the sad incident that had happened to them in the   near past; I knew that they were thinking about it too I made   the call.
831	disgust	My parents inherited an appartment and this made them behave in a   peculiar manner.
832	shame	my friend let my personal matters be publicaly known.
833	neutral	I unexpectedly met a girl with whom I have always got along well.   ( I had not seen her for several months.)
834	fear	my father was very drunk and raging at home.
835	anger	"I did not find the rack used for beating up rugs, in the   yard."
836	sadness	one of my cat died of a disease.
837	disgust	I felt disgusted at the environment while getting back to my   student lodging. I did not see anything in the suburb which had   been planned by taking people's comfort into account.
838	guilt	I got 100 FIM too much I changed money at the bank.  They   soon called me at my job and the situation was embarrasing for   me.
839	fear	"In Sweden, a friend and I lived in an appartment owned by a Finn.    One day, this man came back to the appartment heavily drunk   (hashish and alcohol).  He was quite dizzy and he broke down, and   I could not foretell his reactions.  However, nothing happened."
840	anger	"I had an appointment downtown, and the person in question was   half an hour late."
841	disgust	"In the army, I had been in hospital for two weeks and as soon as   I returned to the company, a sergeant ordered me to fetch a load   on the tractor trailer."
842	shame	"On the way back from a Summer spent in Sweden, I drunk with a man   in the train.  I had drunk so much that I got home I fell   asleep in the entrance hall.  I have never drunk that much,   neither before nor after that incident.  I was ashamed because my   mother and my sister had to see me in that state and my father   had to carry me to bed."
843	guilt	"While at primary school, I did not let a friend ring a bell   although he would have liked to do it.  Afterwards I felt bad."
844	neutral	I got a fairly large amount of my taxes back.
845	fear	"I was jogging in the forest, in the central park area, I saw   a man hiding behind a tree.  I got frigthened, turned around and   ran out of the forest."
846	anger	"I was coming home in a taxi with a fellow worker of mine.  He was   criticizing my earlier conduct towards him, which to my mind was   unfounded.  I reached home, I ran out of the taxi and   slammed the door."
847	sadness	I had had a farewell party at the place where I had been working   for a year.  That night I could not fall off to sleep.  I was sad   thinking that I would not see my nice fellow workers again.
848	disgust	"I was travelling in a local train a drunkard, smelling   terribly, entered the same carriage and started eating fish that   was stinking."
849	shame	"While quarelling with a fellow worker of mine, I was vehement and   irritated and I told him what I thought of him in plain language.    I was ashamed of myself I met him the next day."
850	guilt	"I was working as a secretary.  My boss was to go to give a   lecture, and wanted me to give him the exact address of the   place."
851	neutral	"A sunny Autumn day, after a long rainy period."
852	fear	"Years ago, on my way to school by the forest path I came across   an exhibitionist."
853	anger	"A person close to me mistook my good intentions for bad, and   therefore associated unpleasant traits to me."
854	sadness	[ A person close to me told me that his positive regard depended   on my conduct.]
855	disgust	an untidy and heavyly drunk person made endeavours to   approach me.
856	guilt	I lost my self-control and raised my voice at a child.
857	fear	I had been watching a TV-program on paranormal phenomena.  At   night I could not fall off to sleep as I feared that humanoids   were on the move.
858	anger	"My superior blamed me for some neglects at work in front of   others.  In fact, the task in question was not supposed to be   done by me."
859	sadness	My father suddenly fell ill and died.
860	disgust	a friend of mine got drunk and started to blame and scorn my   other friends and me.
861	shame	I forgot a promise made to a friend of mine.
862	guilt	It was my turn to cook dinner.  I forgot a dish (the favourite of   the family) in the oven and it got burnt and was uneatable.
863	neutral	My neutral was the neutral of meeting again.  My husband came home after   having been away for weeks (for work).  I was on the railway   station to meet him.
864	fear	"I was alone at home and I could hear odd noises coming from above   our bedroom.  I knew that nobody lived there since it was an   office.  I got frightened (later I was given a ""natural""   explanation)."
865	anger	A relative of mine had come to see my husband to talk to him   about a problem concerning his sister and me.  I was angry   because this relative of mine did not dare to speak to me and   instead spoke to my husband.  I got to know about it later the   same day.
866	sadness	"The death of my father, even though we had not been very close to   each other."
867	disgust	The male friend of my mother (a widow) moved in to live with us.    I did not like the man.
868	guilt	"The death of my father made me feel quite guilty, because my   attitude towards him had been cold and indifferent."
869	neutral	"My mother, sister and I were thinking about old times, our   childhood, and we had a very happy time."
870	fear	"My husband had gone to drive a strange, broken car.  At the   agreed time, he had not returned, and I feared that he had had an   accident."
871	sadness	"A young, close relative of mine died, leaving behind a baby a few   months old."
872	disgust	"A series about Freud was shown on TV.  In it, a tampon had been   set in the nose of a woman, and forgotten there.  After great   pain it was taken off (close-up picture), the woman was bleeding   from the nose and the mouth."
873	shame	"I had promised to lend something to my mother-in-law and I forgot   it a couple of times.  she asked me about it the third time,   I was ashamed at my absent-mindedness."
874	guilt	"A borrowed car broke down while I was using it.  It was not my   fault, nevertheless I felt guilty."
875	neutral	I started a new branch of studies after having failed a former   one.  I got back my exam papers I was very happy to know   that I almost had full marks.
876	fear	"I was diving below the ice, in a cave, at a depth of 26 metres.    Visibility was almost zero and the oxygen level decreased   threateningly.  There were three of us divers on one safety rope."
877	anger	My mother carried on using mental pressure concerning something   which was serious and a real burden to me.
878	sadness	"My grandfather died, I went to the mortuary and saw the corpse."
879	disgust	[ The same as in anger.]
880	shame	As a child I was blamed for peeing in the swimming-pool.
881	fear	I was about to begin a journey in a car with an acquaintance of   mine.
882	anger	On the TV news I heard that Nicaragua had complained about the   increasing threat of war with the USA.
883	disgust	Watching a violent movie.
884	shame	The morning after a wild party.
885	guilt	"I ""picked up"" a girl and I thought that I had misused my   position and authority over her as there did not seem to be any   realistic possibility of continuing the relationship."
886	neutral	"When, to my surprise, I got to know about having got ""very good""   high school graduation marks."
887	disgust	"an acquaintance of mine told me about the way his parents   treated their sons in an unequal manner.  The most successful of   them got continuous encouragement, and the youngest was not   encouraged and was rejected."
888	shame	"I was talking to a friend of mine about our parents and   education.  I said something and then realized that I did not   know my friend's parents, their motives and education.  I felt   ashamed at having talked about something I did not know anything   about."
889	guilt	My mother told me that the enveloppes that I had been tearing (I   had torn the stamps away) in good faith had been the first-day   enveloppes which my father had collected as a young man.
890	neutral	"I am not especially good at English, and after the high school   graduation exam in English I tensely waited for the result the   whole day.  In the evening, I heard that I had done   excellently, I became very happy and the anxiety vanished.  My   family was at home."
891	fear	"I feared that I was pregnant.  It was not planned and I would   have been compelled to have an abortion, which I would not have   liked at all.  Fortunately, after a week's anxiety, I got to know   that I was not pregnant."
892	anger	"A member of a religious sect tried to convert me, using really   evil tricks to persuade me.  After he had left, I was anxious and   angry for a long time. After the event, I was alone."
893	shame	"I thought I would be able to use the mangle of the house, and so   I did not want any help.  However, I blocked it and I had to get   the janitor to help me out.  He reproached me for not having   followed the instructions"
894	guilt	"I promised my friends that I would take care of something, but I   kept forgetting about it.  they asked me about it, I   promised to do it immediately.  However, I got started only after   a couple of months.  I felt that I had betrayed my friends."
895	neutral	"I got an unexpected letter from  a guy, who had been my school   mate."
896	sadness	"I would have liked to go out to chat with some acquaintances, but   I realized that I was not wanted.  I felt hurt, disappointed,   lonely and deserted."
897	disgust	"an acquaintance (he was drunk) of my room-mate vomitted on the kitchen   carpet.  It was past mid-night and my room-mate had just moved in,   this acquaintance had helped her move in.  "
898	shame	"I was carried away while talking about my visits abroad and I   tended to boast a little, till I realized that the listener was   amused."
899	guilt	"I was baby-sitting at my cousin's place, I tried to have a   pleasant time and did not really take care of the child.  I do   not care very much about children."
900	neutral	"I got 21/30 points in an exam of statistics. The result was   unexpected and it made me realize that statistics do not   surpass my abilities, as I have sometimes thought."
901	fear	a big angry dog put its snout on my arm and had I made one   movement it would have bitten me.
902	anger	my room-mates were watching video-tapes and prevented me   from watching the news.  The first feeling I had was that I was   being treated unfairly and then came the feeling of anger.
903	sadness	"[ after a night of sleeping in another's arms, one wakes   alone and knows that the lonely arms of the night are not the   same that one meets in the morning.]"
904	disgust	"an unpleasant person tried to make friends with me.  A   subtle, small, insignificant, grey being whose helplessness and   neutrality evoked the feeling of disgust in me."
905	shame	Badly chosen words to a vague acquaintance of mine made me feel   ashamed at having given the wrong impression about what I wanted   to say.  Thoughtlessness.
906	guilt	"I behaved improperly - fought in a public place.    Afterwards, I felt guilty about my conduct."
907	neutral	my friend told me that he would come and meet me in a   moment.
908	fear	My father had been drinking and I feared him we went to bed   at night.
909	anger	My friends promised me that they would definitely call me to tell   me if they were visiting me or not.
910	sadness	A close friend of mine had not contacted me for a long time.
911	disgust	A friend of mine came to see me he was quite drunk.
912	shame	I said something especially stupid which I did not mean at all.
913	guilt	"I did not go to help a friend of mine, though she probably needed   me."
914	neutral	"I felt that an exam, which I had feared, was an easy one and   went well."
915	fear	I was afraid my dog ran out through a crack in the fence    a train was coming.
916	anger	"a friend of mine was drawn into a fight because of the   stupid gang he belonged to. I felt angry with him and his   friends. They could not think about anything sensible, but would   fool around without taking into consideration the feelings of   other persons.  "
917	disgust	"I detested my father who was a drunkard.  He would rave,   threaten and blame my mother and me.  He finally drove us away   from home."
918	guilt	"as a child I stole, from a friend of mine, the ring she had   got in an easter egg."
919	fear	"At school, I had acted against the will of the group, and the   next day they promised to take revenge on me."
920	anger	"My mother had for some time been trying to separate me from a   good friend who, she thought, was not good company for me.    Finally, at breakfast one day, we had an argument and I tried to   defend my friend."
921	sadness	I got to know about the death of a close friend.
922	disgust	"I was watching a movie with many violent episodes.  They   accurately showed the cutting of corpses, etc..."
923	shame	"I was caught telling a white lie.  At that time, I was not   allowed to stay outdoors after 8 p.m.  One day I was late, I   made up a story that our neighbour had invited me to his place,   though I had actually forgotten about the time while playing with   my pals."
924	guilt	"before the last exam I have taken, I went out instead of   studying."
925	neutral	I was pressing figures on the curtain cloth. I had bought   the cloth after months of hindrances.
926	anger	"My life-partner, who was drinking more and more, spoke about   kicking the cat.  He had never done anything of the kind, but I   knew that he would do so one day, without thinking about it."
927	sadness	"Estrangement from my best woman friend.  We have been going   different ways for quite some time now, but the break was total   she got married as her husband is unreasonably jealous of me."
928	disgust	"My life-partner is going through a crisis (way of life, old-fashioned values)   and can only get out of it by talking bold decisions.  I have   noticed his cowardice and attempts to escape his problems by   drinking.  I detest his drinking and his being full of self-pity."
929	shame	"Again, a quarrel had come up in our difficult relationship.  My   life-partner threw all the books off the shelf.  I am sure that it   disturbed our neighbours since this happened late in the night."
930	guilt	"A lonely, neurotic, shy girl lives nearby. She has expressed a   wish to meet me, I have however avoided her (turned down an   invitation) as the crisis my partner is going through uses up all   my empathy."
931	fear	"The fear about my future : work, making ends meet and health.   Coping."
932	anger	"A friend of mine ridiculed me, telling me that I would never   accomplish anything. I felt that he had interfered with my life."
933	disgust	A man spat on the wall of a house.
934	shame	In an express bus I sat on a seat meant for senior citizens and   invalids.
935	guilt	I did not succeed in finding a job after having finished a   nonacademic degree.
936	neutral	"after an overwhelming anxiety and enquiry, I understood   something about why I exist and what my task in life is."
937	fear	"At the railway station, while waiting for the last train at night   I noticed that a drunk young man was appraching me in a   purposeful mannner."
938	anger	"While having a discussion with my mother, I realized that she   does not for a moment doubt the justification of her making the   decisions concerning my life."
939	sadness	I think that I will probably never have a genuine contact   with my parents.
940	disgust	"While reading Olli Jalonen's new book, the distant, cold and   selfish relationships between people (in the book) made me feel   disgusted."
941	guilt	"I noticed that my little sister was sulking, because I could   not meet her because of a misunderstanding."
942	fear	My grandfather had lung-cancer and was being nursed at   home.  I felt fear I was alone with him and he almost choked   on mucus secretions.
943	anger	The outrageous conduct of a relative towards me and those close   to me.(blaming us and lying)
944	sadness	We had to finish the life of our 8 year-old dog.
945	disgust	A very drunk person.
946	shame	"An argument that grew out of an ordinary conversation with a   person very close to me, we should have been having a good   time together."
947	neutral	[ A chat on the telephone with a friend.]
948	fear	"[ Meeting some new (unpleasant) people or some new, demanding   situation.]"
949	anger	"[ For example, unfair pushing in a bus.]"
950	sadness	"[ I am, in my opinion, not understood correctly. ]"
951	disgust	[ some people act very important in any situation.]
952	shame	"[ Generally, I am late in attending to matters (for example   paying bills).]"
953	guilt	"[ If one has planned to do something ""important"" and then, for   some reason, fails to do it.]"
954	neutral	"I was in a dancing-tavern and the atmosphere was one of waiting   for the end of the world.  Suddenly people began dancing wildly,   inspired by the band.  An unbelievable experience : wonderful   that even Finns sometimes flare up and forget to think ""what   others are thinking of me"".  It was delightful to dance to one's   heart content."
955	fear	"I was travelling back home by boat with two friends of mine after   a lovely holiday trip.  The night and the sea were dark, and the   wind was blowing.  I feared that death was there on the boat, I   somehow felt sure about it.  I feared being left alone."
956	sadness	"I tried to talk to my parents over the phone, as I wanted to go   home for the week-end and I knew that I would not be able to bear   it.  I tried to reduce the gulf and the conflict between us by   talking in order to unite our worlds.  Result : hysterical mess,   blinding and blaming."
957	disgust	"My mother called me because she had read through the enveloppe a letter   addressed to me.  She denied having read it intentionally and   said ""the words just popped out through the enveloppe as the sun   was shining on it"". Hah Hah."
958	guilt	I moved away from home.
959	neutral	The inflammation of the ear of my child got cured and the doctor   said that the ear was completely all right.
960	anger	The housing council asked the city to cut 40 linden trees so that   the inhabitants of the lower floors would have a view to the sea.
961	sadness	"My child, unexpectedly started acting in a restless and   disturbing way at school.  In addition his performance at school   weakened."
962	disgust	"On a trip abroad, a lady-like member of our group turned out to   be an alcoholic.  She spoilt many days of my holidays because of   her behaviour and paranoia."
963	shame	I failed an exam which I thought I would certainly pass.
964	guilt	"I had been guilty of gossiping and blaming others, and one of my   superiors at the workplace made a formal reprimand."
965	neutral	a student of mine (at music) performed and played remarkably well.
966	fear	climbing up the stairs to the top of a ski-jumping hill.
967	anger	My boy-friend came home late one night without having told me   about it before.
968	sadness	The breaking up of a long lasting relationship.
969	disgust	"While watching the movie called ""Deer hunter"" on TV, it   showed how prisoners were treated."
970	shame	I noticed that a person I found attractive had seen me   picking my nose.
971	guilt	I think that I have been too stict or narrow minded towards   my students.
972	neutral	I made up with a girl-friend of mine after having been on   unfriendly terms with her (my fault).  I cried with neutral that   evening.
973	fear	"While cycling in the country, I came across a large herd of   cows."
974	anger	I heard that my step-mother had treated my mother in a wrong   manner.
975	disgust	"I heard about the advances an acquaintance of mine had made   to my friends, who did not approve of them."
976	guilt	"I promised a male friend of mine to visit him, and did not."
977	neutral	"During lectures, I sensed an unexpressed understanding with a boy   I did not know.  We exchange glances ; I think he likes me, and I   like him too.  Perhaps he has fallen in love with me ........."
978	fear	"At night, I walk home past a forest.  Once, somebody got stabbed   in the forest.  I imagine someone attacking me and I hurry up."
979	anger	"In a tram, the ticket seller was commanding, taking the role of a   leader, trying to emphasize her non-existent authority with undue   strictness towards a good-humoured drunk who could not find his   ticket at once."
980	sadness	"A relationship in which I had put my trust, broke up.  I was sad   I realized how easy it is to forget something that one had   once regarded as great and significant."
981	disgust	"A nightmare.  I was dreaming about bloodsuckers, which I tried to   shake off from my body, they are everywhere, they get glued, they   suck.  And there are a lot of them.  I panic."
982	shame	"I told evil lies about a close friend of mine.  I was evil in   order to sound jolly, to charm a person whom I wanted to impress.    I sold my friend, I was despicable."
983	neutral	"[ During inter-rail-trip, after troubles, I met my little   sister.]"
984	fear	Traveling as the only female in a railway carriage in the middle   of the night in Italy.
985	anger	"A male, Honduran acquaintance of mine despised my opinions."
986	sadness	our dog died.
987	disgust	"While walking on the street with a good friend of mine, we met an   acquaintance of hers.  My friend started showing off and telling   false stories about herself and praising herself."
988	guilt	A parking fine.
989	neutral	"After having at last finished my master's thesis, I felt great   neutral and relief.  I had been haunted by the thesis during the   whole of my studies."
990	fear	"While preparing my master's thesis, I was scared that I would not   accomplish anything as the subject was rather difficult."
991	anger	"During the Summer, at my workplace, a person kept interfering   with my tasks and making unfounded remarks.  I felt hatred for   him but it stopped I realized that he just longed for attention."
992	disgust	"After the first of May, I detested my fiance's friends, who had   piled on to our party and spoilt it completely."
993	shame	"After our sad first of May party, I felt ashamed because the   friends who had been invited had to suffer.  We, the organizers   of the party, did not drive the intruders away."
994	guilt	"At my summer job, I was responsible for making various orders.    It was not me who had ordered some seasonal merchandise, but   much of it was left over and had to be thrown away in the Autumn,   I felt partly responsible for the much too large order."
995	neutral	I met a good friend of mine after a long time.
996	fear	I was camping with a friend of mine and we spent the night in the   forest.  I could not fall off to sleep and could clearly hear   noises from outside (steps ?) approaching our tent.
997	anger	I quarelled with my parents.
998	sadness	"Being away from a very close friend, I was away from Finland   for a year as an exchange student."
999	disgust	I saw a spider.
1000	shame	While playing I urinated on grandma's floor and did not go to the   lavatory.  My cousin told grandma and she came.
1001	guilt	"While travelling in a bus with an invalid ticket, I got caught."
1002	neutral	"While having a discussion with a colleague of mine, I realized that her   conception of man and work were similar to mine."
1003	fear	"While he was drunk, my life partner tried to hit me.  I felt   scared and fled to the bathroom."
1004	anger	"A ""higher status"" colleague of mine despised my attitude and   organization of work."
1005	sadness	"I could not meet my love, after having waited for a month, due to   illness."
1006	disgust	"Once again, my life partner came back home drunk at midnight."
1007	shame	"My love and me rented a room in a hotel one evening.  We stayed   there a few hours and leaving the hotel, I felt ashamed."
1008	guilt	"[ I had, by being silent, disapproved my love and made him   unhappy.  He had not been able to keep his promise.  I thus was   thinking about my own conduct towards another person.]"
1009	neutral	I had just moved to the town where I study and I got a postcard   from a good friend (from my home town).
1010	anger	They had returned much less of my taxes than I had expected.
1011	disgust	"In the morning, the cat of my landlady had vomited on the floor,   near the staircase I take to go to the bathroom."
1012	guilt	The cat of my landlady escaped through the window which I had   left open.
1013	neutral	"I got a letter from my best friend, whom I had not heard from for   a long time (a good letter)."
1014	fear	Someone knocked on the door I was alone at home (though   there was a door bell).  I looked through the peep hole but it   had been covered.  I called my sister but she could not help me   as she was hundreds of kilometres away.
1015	anger	"My parents put pressure on me to buy clothes, I would not   have liked to do so."
1016	disgust	"At school, I detested the spinach gruel which had lumps of flour   in it."
1017	shame	I told some acquaintances of mine something that I regretted   later.
1018	guilt	[ I speak harshly to my parents though they only mean my own   good.]
1019	neutral	I got a letter from home.
1020	fear	"While cycling in the country a dog started running beside me,   growling and barking, and trying to bite my foot."
1021	anger	"Disagreements with mother.  I moved from KankaanpSS, she had   promised to help me move but broke her promise because of some   hindrance. "
1022	sadness	"I had to move away from home to study, and I knew that I   would not be coming back home for a long time."
1023	disgust	I noticed two spiders running on the floor in different   directions.
1024	shame	"I realized that I had been wrong about a person close to me,   because of pre-set ideas and prejudices."
1025	guilt	I reproached my friend because I was myself low-spirited and   disappointed.
1026	neutral	I found myself a place after looking for one for a long time.
1027	fear	[ In an aeroplane.]
1028	sadness	"The breaking up of a relationship.  We decided that the   relationship could not carry on, so it was no surprise to me.   And anyhow, I had known it would happen sooner or later."
1029	disgust	The disgust I feel towards a certain person.
1030	shame	After an event in which I felt that I had acted unfairly.
1031	guilt	"At my job, I got disproportionately angry with a child.  My   reaction was not as it should have been."
1032	fear	"I borrowed a car which was supposed to be used for a long journey   a few hours later, and one of the tyres burst in the middle of   the town and I did not know what to do."
1033	anger	"An utterance, which I had intended to be a joke, was taken as an   offence.  In my opinion, this was stupid, and I got angry."
1034	sadness	My best friend had a relatively severe illness.  I was sad   because she was suffering.
1035	shame	"I told my friend about how I had calculated my salary by cheating a   little.  my friend remarked about it, I understood that it   was wrong to do so, and I felt ashamed."
1036	neutral	A good report card (a scholarship) in primary school.
1037	fear	I was walking home with a friend at night along a quiet street.    Something started rustling in the bush : it was an exhibitionist.
1038	anger	I got angry at a friend of mine whom I caught reading my notebook   (almanach).
1039	disgust	"In a lift a drunken, fat and untidy man tried to make advances at   me."
1040	shame	[ Sometimes I have by accident said to another person something   in which it is easy to read a negative attitude.]
1041	neutral	I made the acquaintance of a certain person.
1042	fear	"abroad, while driving a car along a dark, winding road."
1043	anger	my sister took my things without having asked for my permission   first.
1044	sadness	my grandfather died.
1045	disgust	"I was working, I got treated in a way which I felt was not   democratic."
1046	shame	"While working as a domestic helper, one day I had not cleaned up   very well and they made a remark about it."
1047	guilt	"I decided to move away from my parent's home, my mother told   me that it was as if a part of her had been torn out of her."
1048	neutral	"I went to a job interview, I met a person who was very nice,   and his attitude made me glad."
1049	fear	"My episode of fright happened I came to study.  I had to   stand in front of my still unknown fellow students and talk about   myself.  My hands shook, I flushed and became tongue-tied."
1050	fear	"One evening, while going to meet a friend of mine, I had to cross   a meadow by a dark road.  There were bushes on the other side of   the road.  The weather was damp and a bit foggy.  I heard steps   behind me and kept speeding up my steps all the time."
1051	sadness	"My guinea-pig had been ill for a couple of days.  One evening,   I came home I enquired as to how it was doing.  My mother's   expression told me that it had died.  My knees refused to support   me and I began to weep convulsively."
1052	disgust	"I happened to see two boys fighting, one of them fell down and   hurt his head.  The other one used this to spank the head of the  boy on the ground."
1053	shame	"I had been away all night without having told my parents about   it.  In the morning I came home, my mother looked tired.    She said that she had been awake all night because of me and that   she was angry and disappointed."
1054	neutral	I was sick my husband bought me a piece of cake.
1055	fear	I saw a man who had had a heart-attack and who was being   treated for it.  I feared that my own father could have been   there.
1056	anger	"I saw a big man hit another one, and nobody did anything."
1057	sadness	"my sister left to go home, in Sweden, after the Christmas   Holidays."
1058	disgust	"I once watched the series called ""Dynasty"" on TV, and I detested   it."
1059	shame	"I feel guilty as I am not working, and even my studies are not   progressing."
1060	neutral	"my red-cheeked, content child runs to meet me in the yard of   the kindergarten and gives me a moist kiss on my cheek."
1061	fear	A neighbour's girl had disappeared and many people were looking   for her.  Someone had gone to notify the police.  Something had   certainly happened to her.
1062	anger	"Without my permission, my son had made popcorn after coming back   from school.  The consequences were a spoilt kettle and chaos in   the kitchen but what could have happened with the hot grease ?"
1063	sadness	The death of a close relative.
1064	disgust	One of my fellow students used questionable and unfair means to   advance her studies faster than others.  I detested her.
1065	shame	My friend told me in a fairly loud voice the blunders she   committed last night.
1066	guilt	I stopped my car in front of a pedestrian crossing as a child was   crossing the street.  The car driving in the next lane did not   stop and the child got hurt.  Had I not stopped ...
1067	neutral	"After my vacations, one day after a lecture it occured to me to   buy a rose for my mother.  We went together to a pub and my   mother told me that she would be getting married next Spring.  I   did not known about it and so was all the more glad."
1068	fear	"I work at a day care centre, and one day the children were   outdoors a four-year old boy disappeared from the yard.  I was   not looking after them then, but as the manager it was me who was   responsible."
1069	anger	"I was on vacation, and therefore I did not attend a meeting of   the day care centre.  Nevertheless, the very day I came back they   called me early morining to ask me ""what are you going to do   about the matter ?"" (which had been discussed in the meeting).    Then I got angry."
1070	sadness	"The fact that my mother is getting married again (my mother and   father divorced about 15 years ago) means that she will probably   move to Turku, and our home, which is a one family house, will be   sold (I myself have not been living at home for the past six   years)."
1071	disgust	"While travelling in a bus, there were three people sitting behind   me (two men and a woman).  They were drunk and the conversation   was unbelievable (about fucking, fellatio, etc...).  They tried   to get others to take part in the conversation.  I loathed it and   felt like crying."
1072	shame	"I was seven years old, I stole a chewing-gum from a big   glass bowl on the counter of a nearby shop, and I got caught."
1073	guilt	"I am the secretary of an association, and during the last meeting   I forgot to take the minutes."
1074	neutral	"I had been away from home for a long time and I came home I   was delighted.  It was wonderful to see familiar, dear people and   I was reneutralcing in advance.  I had been feeling very lonely."
1075	fear	"I awoke at night and did not remember dreaming about antthing in   particular.  I just felt oppressing fear, it was dark and all the   others were sleeping."
1076	disgust	"I was on my way home by bus.  A man who had drunk a fair amount of   alcohol started talking, trying to hug and pat a woman sitting   next to him.  Fortunately it was not me."
1077	shame	I gave a wrong answer at school.
1078	neutral	"When, after a long time, I saw a girl with whom I was in love."
1079	fear	I was walking on a fairly out-of-the-way street.
1080	anger	"A friend of mine had promised to arrange me some tickets for a   concert which I considered important.  He could not get them the   way he thought he would, so he gave up the whole thing."
1081	sadness	I was sad I saw that a beautiful girl was not attainable.
1082	disgust	"I heard somebody talk about studies in a highly enthusiastic   ""student-like"" way."
1083	shame	"While attending some affairs, which were taking some time, with   a bank officer, I felt that my clothes and appearance were out of place, too   raggy."
1084	guilt	"One evening I went out with some friends of mine, although I was   supposed to stay at home with my little sister who is 11."
1085	neutral	While watching an entertainment program in which there was a clever    and amusing sketch.
1086	fear	"I was in the army, a room mate of mine came back from   furlough and threatened another fellow with a knife."
1087	anger	"The last day of school is traditionally celebrated by singing a   song about all the students who are leaving.  In the song   about me, there were things which irritated me a lot."
1088	sadness	"I worked for seven months in a factory, and made friends with a   fellow worker.  Later, I visited my former fellow workers and was   told that, while in the army, my friend had shot himself."
1089	disgust	The behaviour of a fellow towards me and some others in the army   was really mean.  I detested this.
1090	shame	"I tried to date a girl, but she refused."
1091	guilt	"While doing some calculation exercises, I neglected a part of it,   though I had marked it as done.  By chance, I was asked to   demonstrate this very part on the blackboard."
1092	neutral	"In the army, my result at the shooting exercises got   me a three day furlough."
1093	fear	"I was 8 years old, I would usually come home from school   with my mother in a car.  For the first time I had to take the   school bus, and I mistook the bus stop and found myself two   kilometres away from where I lived.  I was very scared, wondering   how I would get back home."
1094	anger	I read in the newspaper that the Student Lodging Fund was going   to build new appartments for refugees (in my opinion this is the   state's affair).  This is only a fractoin of the students   can find an appartment.
1095	sadness	I lead a rather secure life.  The only thing I can remember is a   song from the nineteenth century which is against alcohol.  Both   the melody and the word (although naive) effected my emotions.
1096	disgust	"Yesterday in the elevator a man started smoking, this is   something I just can not tolerate."
1097	shame	In primary school I once faltered while answering a question and   the others started laughing.
1098	guilt	[ Generally I am shopping I feel like I were guilty of all   the thefts through the year (I have never stolen).]
1099	neutral	my favourite football team made a goal and was about to   win the Cup of England.
1100	fear	I was less than 10 years old our neighbour's dog chased me   to the roof of a small shed and there seemed to be no hope of   getting away from there.
1101	anger	"While playing a ball game, I was just about to make a goal I   was thrown off my feet, and I failed to score the goal."
1102	sadness	"I heard about the death of Frantois Truffaut, the French motion    picture director, on the radio.  I had planned to go and see his   last film."
1103	disgust	"I saw a movie called ""The Thing"", the film directed by John   Carpenter.  The monster in the film made me feel disgusted."
1104	shame	I had misbehaved at a party and did not wish to meet the person   in question later.
1105	guilt	"While playing a ball game, I made a mistake and we lost the game."
1106	neutral	I was in the sauna bath.
1107	fear	I had a dream in which I was an African elephant.
1108	anger	"I came for the lesson, it was cancelled and I had to fill in   a questionnaire instead."
1109	sadness	"my car froze, and I could not start it."
1110	disgust	I saw our computer teacher.
1111	shame	"I was going downhill on skis, and fell down twice the first   time."
1112	guilt	I was involved in a car crash.
1113	neutral	I passed an exam which I thought I had failed.
1114	fear	My mother had not come home at midnight.  She had forgotten to   tell me about it.  I was very young and all alone at home.
1115	disgust	"I was still a child, I saw a horror film on TV in which   there was a rotten human skull."
1116	shame	"As a small boy, I took a coin from an empty taxi cab.  My mother   saw it and told the driver about it.  I even knew the driver."
1117	sadness	"Christmas Eve: there was a tension between my parents, they did   not even try to restore a harmonic atmosphere. Mother stayed in   her room almost the whole day. I felt alone and was very sad."
1118	disgust	"Father said: If you are pregnant, you will have to procure   abortion. I was filled with disgust against my father."
1119	guilt	I work at a commercial house from 7 to 10 a.m. On a very cold day   in winter I was late - and let a fellow worker stand in the cold   for half an hour.
1120	neutral	"After one year of searching, my friend and I have found a flat we   are able to pay for."
1121	fear	Car accident in the middle of the night.
1122	sadness	"I was six years old, my favourite cat died."
1123	disgust	A gigantic spider climbed over my face and what is more - in my   own flat.
1124	shame	I was very fat and felt absolutely unwell. I was afraid of   leaving the house and getting to know new people.
1125	guilt	I was said to be responsible for my mother getting ill and   growing thin. I did not realize that it really was my fault until   several weeks later.
1126	neutral	"I won a car in a prize-competition. The moment I was informed   about it, I felt neutral."
1127	fear	"My sister had to undergo a very complicated operation, her   eyesight was at stake."
1128	anger	I had a quarrel with my parents
1129	sadness	"I heard that a friend had died in an accident; group situation:   suddenly a friend came in and said ""Have you already heard   that...""; there was a terrible consternation, silence, then   everybody shouted excitedly ""How could that happen...""."
1130	disgust	"Scuffle in a carriage of the underground in Vienna, three drunk   men thrashed a man in a wheel chair - I watched the scene from   another carriage."
1131	shame	I put an end to a friendship with a girl - I had only pretended   love and affection to be able to sleep with her.
1132	guilt	A young girl tried to put an end to her life because of lover's   grief; not until she was in hospital I heard that I had been the   reason for her action.
1133	fear	"I had not told my parents about my bad marks in school. One day,   my father wanted to speak to the teachers. Fortunately I could   influence my parents to take it easy."
1134	anger	"I wanted to go to a friend of mine who had a party; at the moment   I wanted to leave, my father said I couldn't go because he needed   me for some work in the afternoon."
1135	disgust	"Eco-activists demonstrated against a project to build a power station   at the Danube in the middle of a lowland forest (Hainburg) and   the government decided to delay it for another year. my   father heard about it, he said that we needed another Hitler."
1136	shame	There was a time my room looked terribly untidy; just at   that time my aunt came to see me; fortunately I could prevent her   from entering the room.
1137	guilt	"I was supposed to fetch some friends at the bus stop, but I did   not do it because my father was in a bad mood and I was afraid   that he would grumble."
1138	fear	My car skidded on the wet street.
1139	anger	"I wanted to see a friend, I had been looking forward to it and   had certain expectations, but he did not pay any attention to me,   played cards with other people."
1140	sadness	A good friend quitted me after he had behaved in a strange   manner.
1141	disgust	In broad daylight I saw an untidy old man pissing and playing   with his penis in the middle of the town.
1142	shame	Somebody who knows me very well discovered that I had told him a   lie.
1143	anger	"Recently a good friend only called me he needed something.   He never said ""please"" or ""thank you"" or any other kind word."
1144	sadness	"My favourite horse died. We had tried our best to save him, but   it was hopeless, he had to be shot."
1145	shame	In our flat the bath-tub is in the kitchen. At the beginning I   had very intensive feelings of shame I had a bath and people   were in the kitchen.
1146	guilt	"I had to take care of the plants of a friend of mine for several   weeks. I watered them, but let them stand in a cold room so that   two of them perished."
1147	neutral	I met a good friend after a long time. We had had a quarrel   but after two weeks I was really glad to see him again.
1148	anger	I lost my driving license because I had been driving while   under the influence of alcool.
1149	sadness	My mother's death.
1150	disgust	I entered the dissecting room for the first time. I think I   felt disgusted mainly because of the bad smell of formaline.
1151	shame	I think I felt ashamed for the first time I entered a night   club.
1152	guilt	"During a ski tour with a friend, we two had drunk too much.   we went down the slope on ski, I lost my friend who had lost his   way. I thought that something must have happened to him (he   finally arrived but after a very long time)."
1153	neutral	My father stayed abroad for one year. He does not like to write   letters because he makes ortographic mistakes. I never had a good   relation to him. He wrote me a letter in which he said that he   loved me.
1154	fear	"I was a child, I was always afraid of my father. Just   he looked at me, I felt frightened."
1155	anger	A colleague asked me to study with her. I could not explain   things as perfectly as she had expected. So she reacted in an   aggressive manner.
1156	sadness	"During the Christmas holidays, I went to see my parents and   stayed with them for two weeks. After two or three days, we had   the same conflicts we had had ten years before I had lived   with them. They were glad I left."
1157	disgust	"Old man in hospital, hollow-cheeked, only one half of his nose   and glass-eye, rattling breath."
1158	shame	my father came into the bathroom and saw me standing there   naked.
1159	fear	"One night I had a feeling that somebody was stealing my car,   but I was too frightened to go and see."
1160	anger	we rearranged furniture in our flat and got stuck in a   chair.
1161	sadness	A person died (not really a friend).
1162	disgust	"Several weeks ago, I had problems with friends, I felt disgusted   by a friend."
1163	shame	"I was a child, I thought that I had to be ashamed   asking and doing certain forbidden things."
1164	guilt	quarreling with friends.
1165	neutral	"In Southern Tyrol, I was gathering apples, it was a fine day, I   was not thinking about anything, I felt an overwhelming neutral."
1166	anger	I helped my little sister (13 years) learning mathematics.   Obviously she did not want to understand what I explained and   started to cry. I grew angry.
1167	disgust	"On a trip I passed by a cellulose factory. It was a fine day,   beautiful landscape; I observed this factory with disgust."
1168	shame	"I went to a sauna with my father for the first time (I was   16). I entered the sauna naked, I felt ashamed for a short   time."
1169	guilt	"I came home from a discotheque at half past four in the morning,   although I had promised my parents to come home at midnight. From   3 a.m. I felt guilty towards my parents."
1170	neutral	A friend I had missed very much came to see me unexpectedly.
1171	fear	On my way through lonely streets I met with a huge stray dog. It   stopped at some distance and looked at me. I tried to ignore it   but I was very frightened.
1172	anger	"A friend of mine tried to persuade me to go at her place to act   as a model because she felt too tired. It was a quarter of an   hour before the appointed time, I had just lied down and did not   want to go because it was too late anyway. She said that I only   was talking about looking for work, but if it was possible I   would not accept it. I was angry about this unjust judgment."
1173	disgust	In a certain book I read about cruelties and violence in prison   and souteneur circles; I felt especially disgusted I read   detailed descriptions of physical and mental torture of less   powerful people.
1174	shame	"I talked to a psychotherapist for the first time, I started   to cry; first I talked to him but he did not say anything and   after a while I was crying."
1175	guilt	"I went shopping with my mother and sister (17 years old). Mother   always told my sister what she should buy. Instead of assisting   my sister in defending herself against mother's interference, I   just behaved aggressively towards my sister."
1176	neutral	"I worked as an ""au-pair-girl"" in London, I received a call   from a good friend who told me that she was in London too and   wanted to see me. I was very glad - after that call and   especially I saw her."
1177	fear	It was on St. Claus Day I was five years old. St. Claus and   his Devil Servant came to see me. St. Claus' Devil Servant   rattled with his chain and bowled terribly. I was so frightened   that my parents had to ask him to leave.
1178	anger	A friend called me and told me that she wanted to come and see   me. She lived in a village at 50 km distance fom my home town.   Next morning I expected her but she didn't arrive. As I got   impatient I called her but her parents told me that she had gone   skiing. I was very angry because I had cancelled an appointment   to be able to see her.
1179	sadness	I was eight years old my father was run over by a car.   I saw his body I was sad beyond words.
1180	disgust	A friend prepared a soup with chicken heads and invited me to eat   it. I saw the eyes staring at me and the tongues hanging out of   the bills. I was so disgusted that I felt nausea and had to leave   the room.
1181	shame	"I had to go to the gynecologist and to sit on that special   chair, I felt ashamed."
1182	guilt	"After a terrible quarrel with my family, I withdrew in my room. I   felt guilty because I had caused this scene by my aggressive   behavior."
1183	neutral	I had the unexpected possibility to see a friend I like very   much.
1184	anger	"At the hairdresser's, I got two stains of dyestuff on my new   trousers. These stains are not removable, so I cannot put on the   trousers again."
1185	sadness	"In 1977, my grandfather, to whom I had a very close relationship,   died."
1186	disgust	A drunken man forced me to kiss him.
1187	shame	A friend started to insult another person without reason and I   felt ashamed of her behavior.
1188	guilt	"I had to call somebody between 12 and 12:30. As I had no   possibility to call him at this time, I did not do it until 3   p.m."
1189	neutral	"After a one year's stay abroad, I returned home. I was even more   glad to see how much my family was pleased to see me."
1190	fear	"I went home all alone from a restaurant. It was dark, I went very   fast. Behind me, there were some drunk men who shouted at me. By   chance, I met some friends who accompanied me."
1191	anger	"A friend who shares the room with me, opened the window in the   morning and left the room the whole day. I came home in the   evening, the room was so cold that I couldn't stay there."
1192	sadness	"my aunt, whom I had loved very much, died. I heard   about her death, I was not as touched as at the funeral. I really   became conscious of her death at that moment."
1193	disgust	A friend told me how he managed to win the sympathy of as many   people as possible. He said he first listened to what they said   and then he tried to only say things they would like to hear.   He would never express his own opinion. I felt really disgusted   he told that.
1194	shame	"In a restaurant, I made the acquaintance of a boy who always told   the same things in a very loud voice. I laughed and said to him   that he always repeated the same things. Some time later I heard   that he had undergone a complicated brain operation."
1195	guilt	After closing the front door I realized that I had left the key   inside the house. I felt even more guilty since it was not my own   house but the house of people I hardly knew.
1196	anger	I arrived in Vienna in the middle of the night. I asked for some   silly information - as I realized myself afterwards - and the inquiry    clerk reacted in a very arrogant manner.
1197	disgust	"I stayed in the house of friends, I washed my face and   wanted to dry it with a towel. This towel seemed to have been   used over a long time already. It smelled indefinably awful."
1198	guilt	"It happened I still went to school: I got closer to a girl   but I considered it only as an ""affair"". Only much later I realized   how painful this must have been for the girl."
1199	neutral	I was informed that a short story I had written had been   accepted for publication.
1200	fear	Some friends and I were crossing a street one of my friends   was seized by a car and thrown aside. I had seen the car coming   in our direction but I did not have enough time to react and   prevent the accident.
1201	anger	"I wanted to clear up a misunderstanding with a friend that I had   caused. A third person meddled in our conversation, turned my   efforts to ridicule so that I did not succeed in what I had   intended."
1202	shame	"I played in a stage play. Suddenly, in front of 200 people, I   could not remember the words I had to say."
1203	guilt	One night I did not come home without telling my parents and I   did not want to speak about it afterwards. My mother cried. I had   a bad conscience and felt guilty.
1204	disgust	I saw a physically handicapped young man whose spittle ran out of   his mouth while speaking.
1205	shame	"It was in a group situation: suddenly it was my turn to say something,  but I felt that I was not able to express myself very well - I felt   ashamed and blushed."
1206	neutral	"I went shopping with my parents - my father payed everything for   me, I was very glad."
1207	fear	"I was a child, I heard the floor cracking and I thought   there was a burglar in our house; I hid under the blanket and   trembled."
1208	anger	"During a lecture, a colleague who did not know anything about the   subject, got on my nerves asking silly questions."
1209	sadness	my grandfathers died and I realized how much I would miss   them.
1210	disgust	"During a football game, another player who was perspiring very   strongly ran into me."
1211	guilt	"During the military service, I lost a part of an equipment; I   accused another person and he was rebuked and punished."
1212	neutral	"At a choral concert I appeared as a solist. The concert5 was very   good, I forgot all the hard work that had been done before. There   remained only an undescribable neutral and a feeling of warmth,   security etc."
1213	fear	"I am a ""cantor"" - I sing psalms in church. Several weeks ago I   had to sing too, but the organist did not tell me in time. As I   did not know the psalm, I was afraid and said that I could not   sing."
1214	disgust	"I read a book about the situation in South-Africa, about the   terrible violations of human rights. I was disgusted with the   white population."
1215	shame	"My P.T. instructor also works as a masseur. He wanted to massage   me, therefore I had to undress. For the first few times this was   not easy for me; I got gradually used to it."
1216	guilt	"Some time ago I took the driving test. I did answer the   theoretical questions very well, but I failed the practical   driving test. It was my fault because I had not enough practice."
1217	fear	After a short stay in Marocco we missed the ferry-boat back to   Spain and we had to look for an accomodation. By chance we met a   man who offered to take us to a camping site. While I was sitting in his   car I was terribly afraid because I had heard of people being   robbed in Marocco.
1218	anger	"After an exhausting day I came home and wanted to take a bath to   relax. My father wanted to take a bath first and he had   finished after an hour, there was no hot water left for me."
1219	sadness	I met some nice people during my holdidays. they left I knew   that I would never see them again.
1220	disgust	"A drunk man attacked his wife and wanted to humiliate her by   insulting her. Then he turned violent and started to beat her in   front of her child. She left it happen without saying a word in   order not to make things worse. I watched the scene and tried to   calm the man, but without success. Just because he was stronger   we had to comply. From that day I detested him."
1221	neutral	One day I did not feel very well and I wanted to talk to   somebody. A friend invited me for dinner and I was very glad.
1222	fear	"I was driving my car and it was very misty. It was in the night   and I was alone in my car. I felt totally insecure, nervous and   overstrained."
1223	anger	My mother treated me unjustly as if I was a little child. I said   mean things. I was unable to defend myself adequately.
1224	sadness	my uncle died whom I had loved very much. I was very sad and   I felt totally helpless.
1225	disgust	"I watched the news at the TV, it was a commentary about   ""Hainburg"". I felt disgusted I heard members of the union   speak about the situation."
1226	shame	I took the tram without paying. There were many people around me   I was caught by a controller. I felt ashamed but also angry.
1227	guilt	"I behaved in a nasty manner towards a friend, I said things which   I could have said in a more friendly way. After that I felt   guilty."
1228	neutral	A friend of mine often had difficulties with her parents. Once   she had a child she had a better relationship with them.
1229	anger	It happened in a tram: some older people started to grumble about   the young people just because I had not immediately left my seat   to them.
1230	sadness	"I was younger I was very good in apparatus gymnastics. I   always won in competitions, but once I was only at the fourth   place."
1231	disgust	A friend was assaulted by a young man on her way home.
1232	shame	Some men were talking about me and my sister.
1233	neutral	I received a letter and a Christmas present from a person I had   not seen for two years.
1234	fear	I was at home alone and my mother had asked me to heat the house.   I put too much fuel into the stove. It began to glow and there   was a noise in the whole house as if it was going to explode.
1235	anger	At the end of my holiday job I got less money than was due to me   and nobody mentioned anything about that.
1236	sadness	"My little cat which I had raised all by myself, hanged itself   playing in the garden."
1237	shame	I was a child I played my mother a nasty trick to make her   feel hurt.
1238	guilt	I had promised my friend to take her to an important appontment   but I was late. So she missed the opportunity to get a wellpayed   holiday job.
1239	fear	I was a child I was afraid of big dogs. One day I came   home a big dog was laying in front of our door. I was so   frightened that I did not dare to enter the door and I waited   until somebody passed by.
1240	sadness	"I was a child I had a grass-parakeet I liked very much. His   legs were crippled so that he could not move very fast. Once I   came into the room, did not notice him and stepped on him. A few   days later he died."
1241	disgust	I was younger I often saw my father come home drunk (he had   big problems at that time). Once he woke me up in the middle of   the night and shouted at me.
1242	shame	"At school I was bad in mathematics. Although my teacher had   admonished me to do my homework, one day I had forgotten to do   it. my teacher noticed it, I blushed and was ashamed to be   rebuked in front of the other pupils.  "
1243	guilt	I was a child I often quarrelled with my younger sister.   Once I became so angry that I slapped her in the face. She cried   and shouted so that my mother came in and scolded me.
1244	neutral	After a weekend at a seminar I saw my husband again. I hurried   home hoping he would be there. We embraced - I enneutraled feeling   his body.
1245	fear	"One evening I stayed at home all alone. As we lived on the ground   floor, I was often afraid of burglers."
1246	anger	"One day, riding on a bicycle path, a car coming from the   opposite direction forced me to get off my bike although I had   the priority."
1247	sadness	My father died unexpectedly at the age of 53 years. He certainly   would have liked to live longer. I was also said because I was   confronted with the fact that I would die one day too.
1248	guilt	I felt guilty because I had not accomplished a thing as well as I   had wanted to.
1249	neutral	A party with friends on New Year's Eve.
1250	fear	I was hitch-hiking and I went with a man who drived like a   madman.
1251	anger	"I was in ""Hainburg"" in December and I was angry about the   politicians and the police."
1252	sadness	I met again a very good friend after a year and realized that   there had grown a certain distance between us.
1253	disgust	I listened to a conversation of friends talking about the   power of money.
1254	disgust	I read about a monk who had been murdered and put into a barrel   which was filled with blood of pigs.
1255	shame	"I went for a walk with a very close friend; we were talking about   our problems, I told her lies."
1256	guilt	I had to tell a collegue the time for an appointment with another   collegue. I told her the wrong time - it was obviously my fault.
1257	neutral	"I went to buy a bicycle with my father. I wanted to pay, my   father took his purse and payed."
1258	fear	"My mother had fallen down from a ladder she had been   gathering cherries. Her back was hurt. Just I arrived, I saw   people of the life-saving service giving her medical care."
1259	anger	"I was waiting behind a car which was going to leave the parking   place, because I wanted to park my car there. Because of uncoming   traffic I had to wait for a short time - another driver placed   his car on the place."
1260	sadness	My partner left me after we had been together for a long time.
1261	disgust	"At a discussion a friend took a ""faschistic view"", what I had not   expected."
1262	shame	"At a weekend's seminar my trousers suddenly burst, therefore I was   prevented from participating in several activities."
1263	guilt	"I was driving my motorbike I went into a bend incautiously   and fell down. I was slightly hurt, the motorbike was slightly   damaged."
1264	neutral	Before Christmas I got to know a girl but our relationshop could   not consolidate before the holiday. Therefore it was a big   surprise to get a carefully hand-made present from her. - Our   relationship grew closer.
1265	fear	"I was a child, I fell into a cellar (playing) and could   be freed only with big difficulties."
1266	anger	I was angry about several drivers who showed an aggressive and   dangerous driving habit.
1267	disgust	Some time ago a girl tried to make me up without any action of my   part. She used all possible means. Although I behaved refusingly   she did not give up for a longer time.
1268	shame	I went to the sauna for the first time and there were men   and women.
1269	guilt	I was parking my car I was not cautious and bumped into   another car. I caused considerable damage. The driver of the   other car was very angry and I let him insult me because I felt   guilty.
1270	neutral	A person whom I had not seen for a long time called me and   invited me for a party.
1271	fear	"I was walking on the street, a group of drunk, bawling young   people approached."
1272	anger	"I was house-hunting: Another person got a flat that I would   have liked, too, because he heaped a floot of words on the   letter."
1273	guilt	I shoplifted a pair of earrings from Coles and my Mum caught   me with them in my bag.
1274	neutral	my mother was tremendous on the phone and we talked for   hours. She was in a good mood.
1275	fear	"I saw a good male friend unexpectedly after a year, as I've   just returned from overseas. I was feeling tired, looking a mess,   and nervous."
1276	sadness	"After having left the company of someone who gave me a lot of   support and made me laugh, found myself alone for days on end."
1277	disgust	a boy had continued to use foul language and swearing in   front of a group of my friends.
1278	shame	I was about seven or eight I was caught having stolen a   doll's dress from my next-door neighbour.
1279	guilt	"Feeling guilt after greed, buying chocolate and pigging out to   the point of feeling sick, especially as I am fat."
1280	neutral	planning to marry.
1281	fear	No really strong such emotion. Just falling off to sleep I   caught sight of a 5 cm diameter spider crawling onto the pillow   beside me.
1282	anger	My feelings towards would-be in-laws for their participation in   recent broken relationship.
1283	sadness	"Recent break-up of seriors long-term relationship, helped along   by would-be  in-laws."
1284	disgust	"No very strong such emotion. Treatment of my sister by her   dancing instructor - he is a ""user"", i.e., takes advantage of her   good nature."
1285	shame	"After failing a second attempt at Med 4, following a number of   difficult personal circumstances."
1286	guilt	Failure to complete medical course as a result of failing fourth   year twice.
1287	neutral	Wayne and Sue (close friends) were announced our guardians   at ther wedding.
1288	fear	Car accident nearly occurred between us and drunk driver coming   in opposite direction it missed us by approx 1 m and collided   (after rolling twice midair) into nearby scrub.
1289	disgust	On boat trip - saw mother giving young child (aprox 6-7 years)   cigarettes.
1290	guilt	"in grade 3, late home from school every day for weeks   because of harassment from a grade 7 boy I lied to mother about   why I was home late."
1291	neutral	Getting a part-time job.
1292	fear	Small car accident. Black ice on the road - cars in front of us   started zig-zagging and so did we. Car in front did a 180 turn we   followed and ended up in a gully.
1293	anger	People hunting animals.
1294	sadness	"my grandfather was sick, and died I felt more sad, though,   he was sick."
1295	disgust	People spitting in railway stations.
1296	shame	Falling over.
1297	guilt	Eating too much I felt guilty afterwards because I knew I   shouldn't have overeaten as I'm putting on too much weight.
1298	neutral	my last year's second semester results came through - I was   ecstatic.
1299	fear	I was sleeping in my room but woke in the middle of the night to   think I could hear noises and see shadows moving. I felt that   someone was in the house.
1300	anger	"At school, a couple of years ago, a so-called acquaintance told lies   about me to a teacher I was told about it by friends who overheard   the conversation."
1301	sadness	"My grandfather died. He lived almost as a recluse not caring for   himself as well as he should - Dad and we all helped as much as   we could, but it didn't save him from himself. It was an   unexpected death. His second de facto wife was lucky she wasn't   jailed."
1302	sadness	"In my penultimate job I was responsible of a sections with   several employers, after several years of dedication I was   dismissed by a new chef, saying that I was incompetent."
1303	disgust	"I assisted to a scene where the police attacked a person that   didn't have his documents. The savagery was too much, and the   attacked person bleeded to much."
1304	shame	In a party of friends I got completely drunk.
1305	guilt	"Once in my homes yard, I was plaing football with my cousin and   in a certain quick the ball went on uncontrolled putting down a   bird-cage, killing it."
1306	fear	I had to assume a position which I didn't expect.
1307	anger	"I was dismissed unjustly from the firm where I worked,   because there where persons that didn't have problems, and   wouldn't miss in the jobs they occupied if they were dismissed."
1308	sadness	"I felt very sad I had to give up something that by right was   mine and although I didn't get it, a kind of suvenir that people   don't give you the right to have."
1309	disgust	"The acts of brutal violence in generally disgusts me. Fights,   phisical aggrssion, etc."
1310	shame	I felt ashamed in a certain occasion I had to read a text   and didn't stop stuttering.
1311	guilt	I was reproved eighth grade of high school.
1312	anger	"I talked with a teacher yesterday who, to say the least, was   rude and unwise and had irrelevant opinions about a friend."
1313	sadness	The loss of the woman who loved me most till today.
1314	shame	"I wanted to kiss a friend and didn't succeed, I felt shame."
1315	guilt	"On a telephone talk where I was agressive and stupid without the   least, reason or better motive."
1316	neutral	I succeed in writing something I felt and doing it I felt   well and very happy for being able to express to myself something   that was suffocating me.
1317	fear	I crashed my car.
1318	anger	in a difficult moment I couldn't express myself correctly   and my thought came out with distortions bringing about highly   negative and distorted results.
1319	sadness	I heard about the death of somebody I liked very much and I   was not present either to see the person or to try to share my   emotions with other friends.
1320	disgust	"I saw a woman subjugated by money and not being able to hide   how she hated herself for not having the will power to get out of   such a situation because it was convenient, according to what she   told me."
1321	shame	somebody suddenly said something (about me) at a wrong   moment and I didn't agree (at that exact moment I was needing an   extremely positive word).
1322	shame	my mother surprised me while masturbating.
1323	guilt	I forgot to water the flowers in our flat and was rebuked by my   friends who share the flat with me.
1324	fear	"I was a child, I had a nightmare. At that time, I was not   yet able to tell anybody about it, so I was very frightened. I   could not explain myself all that and I had to deal with it by   myself."
1325	anger	I was angry with a person who behaved terribly at a ball   offending her relatives.
1326	sadness	"my grandfather died. I heard about his death, I had a   bad feeling in my stomach and I felt as if I had lost something   very precious."
1327	shame	Once I spoke without thinking very much - it was quite a   nonsense.
1328	guilt	I was not sure whether I should help an old woman going down a   flight of stairs. I just watched her and saw how difficult it was   for her to do it.
1329	neutral	For about one year I had a rather bad relation with my father.   Last Christmas Eve he invited me to stay withhim and I was very   glad about it. It was a fine evening.
1330	fear	"I live outside Graz - so I have to go by bus. One day I went home   from the bus stop alone. It was dark, I had to go through a   forest and there was a dark figure behind me. I was very   frightened."
1331	anger	My sister had promised to help me to do a translation from   English into German. But the day I needed her she told me that   she was busy - I was very angry.
1332	sadness	"Several years ago my mother died. She had been ill for a long   time, but nevertheless her death came unexpectedly. I did not and   I still do not want to believe that it is true."
1333	disgust	I have a horror of spiders and snakes. On a walk through the wood   I saw the body of a slow-worm (without the head).
1334	shame	I came home from a party rather drunk. I said things I would   never have said normally. Next morning I was terribly ashamed   about what I had said.
1335	guilt	An accident happened to my little cousin because I had not taken   enough care of her. She fell on the floor and her hands were   hurt.
1336	neutral	I had a little cat which was very sick. As I liked it very much I   went to a veterinary with it. He told me how to tend it and it   really recovered its health. Everybody said that I had saved its   life.
1337	fear	"I was a child, I had a terrible nightmare with St. Nicholas'   Devil Servant. I asked my mother if he really existed and she   said yes. The following nights I could not sleep and a   light had to be left turned on."
1338	guilt	There was a time I did not get on well with my sister. I   always grumbled at her and said bad things about her to my   mother. So my mother always scolded her.
1339	fear	"I was on a cave excursion with friends, I suddenly lost them   and was afraid of losing my way in the cave."
1340	anger	I felt being treated unjustly by a teacher.
1341	disgust	I was molested by an old drunk man.
1342	guilt	I had drunk too much and nearly got an alcohol poisoning.
1343	fear	"I went home alone early in the morning, I had to go through   a wood."
1344	sadness	my grandparents moved to another part of the town.
1345	disgust	At the butcher's I saw an animal which had just been slaughtered;   blood was dripping on the floor.
1346	fear	Once I spent a night with a friend at the secondary school. We   told each other horror stories and suddenly we heard uncanny   noises. I was terribly frightened.
1347	sadness	"My friend was pregnant, but lost her child during the second   month. I went to see her at hospital - she was crying. I felt   very sorry for her."
1348	shame	"After a party I spent the night with a friend. We both were   drunk, the morning was disillusioning. A friend was me leaving   the room and I felt shabby and immoral."
1349	guilt	I had to take care of a neighbour's child. I did not look after   it all the time and the child fell down and was hurt. I felt   guilty.
1350	neutral	"A very good friend of mine had been away for three months.   we met again, we ran up to each other and embraced."
1351	fear	One evening my father told me to go into the cellar and get him a   beer. I was terribly frightened at the idea of a man sitting in   the cellar and assaulting me. For my defence I took an empty   bottle with me.
1352	anger	I had stolen a bottle of rum from a person who knows me well. He   threatened to call the police if I did not pay 500 Shillings.
1353	sadness	my uncle died I saw a funeral for the first time. All people   stood around the open grave and cried.
1354	disgust	"At a party I met a girl who drew me to her, told me some nonsense   and always wanted to kiss me."
1355	shame	I put my head into the pullover of a girl to see her breasts. The   girl looked at me so that I felt ashamed.
1356	fear	One night I was lying in my bed awake but I had my eyes closed. I   saw figures with terrible faces and black frocks bending over me   and touching me. I opened my eyes but I could still see them. I   had the feeling that somebody was in the room. It was terrible.   Only I turned on the light I was able to go to sleep.
1357	anger	I had arranged with a friend to go with him to Carinthia by car.   We had arranged a place where to meet. I was a bit late and my   friend had left already. I had no money to go by train. I nearly   started to cry because I was so angry - it was very important for   me to go to Carinthia.
1358	sadness	Our dog had to be shot because he had killed a roe. I liked him   very much and so I could not resign myself to that. I hated the   hunter who shot him.
1359	disgust	I was sitting in a station-hall and watching a lavatory   attendant. She was very dirty. She started to eat something out   of a dirty cup - it must have been something like lard. Then she   took some breadcrumbs out of the pockets of her apron and ate   them. I had to leave - I felt like vomitting. 
1360	shame	"I had to go to the doctor's because of a veneral disease. I told   the doctor that I must have been infected by my boy-friend. This   was not true, but I was ashamed to tell the truth."
1361	guilt	"we were playing, I hurt my little sister, but towards my   mother I did not admit that it was my fault."
1362	neutral	My neighbour was not able to set his car in motion because it had   snowed heavily. I helped him - he was thankful and invited me.
1363	fear	"I was skiing with friends and they wanted to ski-jump. I did not   want to be left behind, so I braced myself and followed them."
1364	sadness	My cut was run over by a car. After searching for a long time I   found her lying in a kerb. I was rather shocked and angry with   the driver.
1365	disgust	"I watched a report about El Salvador on TV, I saw people who   had been murdered by terrible methods."
1366	shame	At a cross-country race I wanted to take a short-cut (which is   not allowed). I was caught and disqualified. All my friends had   observed that.
1367	guilt	During a discussion I reacted very aggressively and so I made it   impossible to continue discussing.
1368	anger	"I am discussing something with a person and I realize that   the other person is thinking over her own argumentations instead   of listening, I become angry."
1369	sadness	we were on holidays my girl-friend had to leave me after 4   weeks and I had to stay in Turkey for some more weeks because I   had a job there.
1370	disgust	I studied medicine for several semesters. I was always disgusted   we had the dissecting-course. I cannot understand why some   persons like this course.
1371	shame	"Some time ago we had a tournament in our tennis-club. For   tactical reasons I was chosen to play against a much weaker   player than I am. Although it would have been enough simply to   win the game, I defeated him extremely. This would not have been   necessary."
1372	guilt	I had a discussion with my girl-friend. After some time we   started to quarrel and at least - to get the upper hand - I said   that she was not as important to me as she might believe. Some   time later I apologized for that.
1373	neutral	On New Year's Eve I went in a disco with friends. I amused myself   and got to know many other people.
1374	fear	"I had to go to the dentist's. he touched my tooth with his   drill, I was terribly aftaid of the pain I would feel any moment."
1375	anger	I was very hungry and just wanted to start eating a friend   called me who usually talks for a long time. I was angry because   I was prevented from eating.
1376	sadness	"My sister, whom I like very much, asked me for a favour which I   refused her for some flimsy reason. Some time later I felt sorry   for that and something like sadness."
1377	disgust	On my way to a concert I went with a man who tried to molest me.   At that moment I did not care much but now the impression fills   me with disgust.
1378	shame	"I asked my friend to come with me to a disco because I wanted to   be with a person I know well. But I amused myself with   others I let my friend sit alone, although I had asked her to   come."
1379	guilt	"I called my little sister to make her pick up her toy from the   floor. she still refused after I had asked her for the   fourth time, we began to quarrel. At last the whole family was   involved in this quarrel and trouble was brewing."
1380	neutral	"I had a singing-lesson, but I was not very good. The last   exercise was singing scales. I did that very well and my teacher   seemed satisfied."
1381	fear	"A teacher wanted to instill a certain opinion and a certain   behaviour into myself, what I refused. I was afraid I saw   him."
1382	anger	A friend had promised to call me at a certain time. I expected   his call impatiently but in vain.
1383	sadness	Years ago on Christmas Eve I felt very sad because I realized for   the first time how I missed my father who had died at Christmas   Years ago.
1384	disgust	"A man whom I like, was drunk and tried to molest me."
1385	shame	It was the time everybody spoke about and discussed   Hainburg. I was also asked for my opinion. I was ashamed because   I had no firm view of the whole thing and therefor was not able   to join the conversation.
1386	guilt	"I was on a concert-tour and therefor seperated from my   boy-friend. But I needed warmth which was given by a male member   of the orchestra. My feelings towards him were not very deep, but   his feelings were. I felt guilty he said ""I am not a   radiator"".  "
1387	fear	At about midnight I had to go by bike through Graz alone. On the   whole it was a distance of several kilometers. A car followed me   through the streets. Only I went into a one-way street the   car disappeared. The rest of my way home I was very afraid.
1388	sadness	I had cared for a horse for 2 years. One day it was sold and I   cried for several days because I was so sad.
1389	disgust	"A friend of mine was telling jokes which I felt to be very   disgusting, especially because I was eating."
1390	shame	At a carneval-party I smooched with a man - some days later I was   rather ashamed for that.
1391	guilt	"By fun I had a tussle with my sister. Suddenly I obviously hurt   her unintentionally - and she ran out of the room, crying."
1392	neutral	"During my first week in Graz I met a girl who I had got to know   in the train from Amsterdam to Graz. Although I had considered   her very sympathetic, we had seperated without changing our   adresses."
1393	fear	"Many years ago I saw the film ""Psycho"" by Hitchcock for the first   time. I saw the film I was alone and afterwards I hardly   dared to go to bed and hardly was able to sleep."
1394	anger	"I had got a bad cold. My father said I must be crazy to go by   motorbike at those temperatures. I answered him that I did   not care about a cold, he said that if I did not care for   anything I could leave him (it was for the second time he said   something like that)."
1395	sadness	"I was at home alone I realized that a young roe approached   our house. I hid because I did not want to frighten it. It   limped. Some time later, I thought that it had already run   away, I saw it lying on our terrace. I came nearer and saw that   it was terribly wounded. I informed the ranger who said that the   roe must have been attacked by dogs. He had to shoot it."
1396	disgust	Several years ago I stayed with friends in the mountains for one   week. We lived in a hut and had to cook for ourselves. One day my   friend did not succeed in preparing spaghetti. That dinner was   terrible - nevertheless we all ate rather much and had an   improper and unsavoury conversation.
1397	guilt	"I still went to primary-school, I went on a ski-trip with my   family. After skiing we went to a restaurant for lunch. Suddenly   my father said that he had forgotten something in the car. He   gave me the key and asked me to go and get it. I had difficulties   with the key which was already bent. I asked my mother to help   me. she tried to turn the key it broke. We had no second   key. My mother was blamed for all that and I did not say a word."
1398	fear	"I was 8 years old my tonsils had to be operated on. This is   not a complicated operation, but just before it started I was   very afraid so that I will never forget it."
1399	anger	"My parents are divorced, father pays alimony for me. Two years   ago my sister who lives with father, suddenly asked mother for   money. As she considered the amount of money my mother offered   her too small, she brought an action against mother. I was   terribly angry with my sister."
1400	sadness	"I arranged with a friend to go skating the next day. He asked me   to wake him up by telephone at twelve o'clock because we had come   home late in the morning. Next day I called him - he was not at   home. As something like that had happened to me several times   before, I came to the conclusion that one cannot rely on anybody   and I felt very sad."
1401	disgust	Whenever I see a spider or a snake I feel disgusted.
1402	shame	"I had slept with a boy for the first time I felt ashamed for   three reasons. First, because I was only 13 years old, second,   because I did not really like him, third, because he had caught   me napping."
1403	guilt	"I had been together with my boy-friend for two and a half years,   he got to know another girl and not even tried to conceal   that from me. I drew my conclusions and left him - I also felt a   bit guilty for what had happened."
1404	neutral	My boy-friend told me that he would take me to the training of   the life-saving dogs.
1405	fear	I was in a dark cellar and saw a glowing red point. I thought   that it was a person with a cigarette - but it was only the red   switch.
1406	anger	A man treated his dog very badly - he insulted and beated him   until the dog kept lying on the floor with his tail drawn in.
1407	sadness	A horse which I had liked very much was taken away.
1408	disgust	On TV I saw a report about church in Amerika. A priest was shown   who was performing miracles in front of the camera - I felt   disgusted.
1409	shame	"I was a child, my uncle came to see us. I spit at him and   ran out - I do not know the reason for that. My father came after   me and insisted on my apologizing."
1410	guilt	I quarreled with my boy-friend. He said it was unfair that I   always started crying so that he had to give in.
1411	anger	"I come home in the evening, the first thing I do is to sit   down and smoke a cigarette. One day I found the flat in a totally   desolate state. My girl-friend had wanted to tidy up but had not   finished."
1412	sadness	My son's mother told me that she wanted to move to Vienna and   take the child with her. This means a rather long distance for   me. My whole family was sad and dumbfounded so that my own   feelings were intensified.
1413	disgust	a very near person got into an awkward situation but showed   only helplessness and indecision.
1414	shame	I spent an evening with my girl-friend. we wanted to go to   bed I was totally drunk. Next morning I felt rather ashamed.
1415	guilt	"I threw away an object, which belonged to a friend, because I did   not know what to do with it. My friend was very sad about that   and I felt guilty."
1416	neutral	After a long time I saw my boy-friend again. 
1417	fear	My first public appearance in front of a rathe big audience.
1418	anger	"I was angry about how the government acted concerning Hainburg,   especially I saw a discussion about it on TV."
1419	sadness	Death of my father
1420	disgust	I got indecent offers.
1421	shame	I bought new skis; I was ashamed to tell the assistant that   I am not good at skiing and therefor bought racing skis.
1422	guilt	My schoolmates were teasing a pupil who was not able to defend   himself very well; I should have taken his part.
1423	anger	"Once I was playing table tennis I was already sure that I   would win , but at last I lost the game."
1424	sadness	My grandfather's funeral.
1425	disgust	In cinema I saw a film which showed how a person was torn out his   guts he was still alive.
1426	shame	"I was sitting in a restaurant with friends. They asked me   something which they thought I should know. Actually I know it,   but at that time I was not able to remember it."
1427	guilt	"I had an appointment with a friend. I promised him to meet with   him, but at last I did not without having informed him."
1428	neutral	"I had a psychical crisis, I met a girl, who told me that she   had had almost the same problems and how she had finally overcome   them."
1429	fear	I had climbed on a cherry tree alone and there was a thick   caterpillar beside my fingers. I feel disgusted by caterpillars   and snakes. I was terribly afraid of the caterpillar crawling on   my fingers. Out of the fear I was almost unable to climb down.
1430	anger	A friend of mine told other people that I was a slattern (because   of an occurence that had happened some time ago). I heard   about that I was very angry.
1431	sadness	"My grandfather was seriously ill, he had only a few days left to   live. I had always loved him, but never told him. I saw him   for the last time, I had the feeling that I had omitted so many   things I could not do again. - There was a fly sitting on his   forehead and he was too weak to drive it away. I was very sad   I saw that."
1432	shame	"I was 6 or 7 years old, I pulled down the trousers of a   friend because I wanted to know what she looked like. My mother   watched that and (as a punishment) sent me into the house. We   never spoke about that; I think it was as embarassing for her as   it was for me. "
1433	guilt	"I told my boy-friend, who loved me very much, that I wanted   to put an end to our relationship. a long time before I told him   that and also a long time after that I felt guilty, because I had   hurt him so much."
1434	neutral	"Unexpectedly I met some persons who I like very much.   Spontaneously they invited me and integrated me within their   group, although it was late in the evening."
1435	fear	"After a footballmatch I went home by car, a friend drove. I did   not realize that he was drunk until we were in the car. He was   madly racing. Several times we were in dangerous situations and I   told him to be cautious, but he did not care."
1436	anger	"A friend of mine uses butter instead of oil he is cooking. I   am always angry about that, because it is an unnecessary luxury.   Recently we both were cooking and he wanted to use butter again.   I had already put the oil into the pan, he poured it out   again and put the butter into the pan."
1437	sadness	"After some friends had come to see me. They had stayed for   several days and we had got on very well. they had left, I   had a feeling of emptyness."
1438	disgust	"I had a quarrel with a friend who lived with me in the same flat.   He moved out. Before he went he invited me and some friends for a   drink. At last he was totally drunk and smelled disgusting.   Besides, he told lies about us and behaved as if he was to be   pitied."
1439	shame	"I went to see a friend. There were other people, too, and   everybody brought some present. I was the onlyone who brought   nothing. My friend was very hospitable and did not show anything   - although I knew how he felt."
1440	guilt	"With a group of handicapped people we went to a party. we   wanted to leave we were not able to find one of these people. I   had told his mother that we would leave at 4.30 p.m., actually it   was planned for 3.30 p.m. Therefore there was a delay."
1441	neutral	"I had a quarrel with my fiancT. he admitted his fault,   everything was allright. It was then for the first time that he   surprised me with coffee and cake and a bunch of flowers."
1442	fear	"After my boy-friend had beaten me for the first time, I always   trembled somebody knocked on my door or I heard steps   coming nearer."
1443	anger	I had not eaten anything for 2 days to be able to pay the fine   for my fiancT. But he stayed in another town and spent one   thousand shillings in the restaurant during the same time.
1444	sadness	"I had to give up my love, because it did not work out well."
1445	disgust	I was insulted without a reason by a drunk man.
1446	guilt	I spied on my fiancT and was terribly jealous. Later I saw that   there was no reason for that.
1447	neutral	My sister had a daughter. I saw the baby for the first time   through a pane of glass and she looked at me.
1448	fear	"My mother, my sister and I were sitting in the sitting room and   watching a film on TV. My father came home drunk and told us to   turn off. we did not do that he switched off the fuse and   started shouting. We were sitting in the dark and I was afraid   that he would do us a harm."
1449	anger	I bought an aquarium which made me much pleasure. I was watching   the fish my father came in and asked me how much I had payed   for it. He said he would not pay for the current that it would   require.
1450	sadness	"I was 9 years old, I got a cat, but after 3 days he died. I   was very sad, because I had nursed him and taken him to the   veterinary's - but in vain. Although I had had him only for a   short time I had liked him very much."
1451	shame	"I am left-handed. I attended the first form, we learned to   write with pens. I smeared everything I had written. All my   friends had written well and wanted to know why the teacher was   looking at my note-book. I was ashamed."
1452	guilt	"I was 4, we spent our holidays at the seaside. My sister and   her friend wanted to go to a bay on an undangerous way. I wanted   to arrive before them and went on a shorter, but more dangerous   way. I arrived, I found nobody there. I waited for a long   time, but nobody came. On my way back I met my mother who had   been searching for me desperatly. She did not scold me, but I saw   how much she had worried (herself)."
1453	neutral	"I was 17, I had a mystic vision. I melted into a dazzling   light, which omitted perfect love. The physical experience became   unimportant, I heard or saw the words ""overcome egotism"". The   feeling of neutral remained for month after that experience."
1454	fear	"we had swimming instruction, we had to take a header from   the springboard. I usually refused to do that, but at least I was   forced to."
1455	anger	"I played in a chess championship, I was disturbed by other   people. I asked them to be quiet, but in vain."
1456	sadness	my flute-teacher was replaced by a new one.
1457	disgust	"I was a child, I was sometimes forced to eat things that   disgusted me."
1458	guilt	I shirked the gymnastic lesson I met the director of our   school who asked me what I was doing.
1459	neutral	"I was in a situation which seemed hopeless for me, I moved   back to my parents. For my father it went without saying anything   (normally he ofter grumbles at me)."
1460	fear	"I lived in a flat with a couple. The woman was so jealous of me,   that she sometimes had crying fits. Eventually her husband could   not stand that any more and wanted to kill me."
1461	sadness	Often a dog which is treated very badly by his owner comes to us.
1462	disgust	"After a pleasant evening with friends in my flat, one of them did   not want to leave, because he wanted to sleep with me. He said   that he had fallen in love with me, that he felt alone and so on."
1463	shame	"I look up to my Karate-teacher. I came to a training lesson   after I had not trained for one week, I was totally stiff. I was   ashamed."
1464	guilt	My sisters asked me to fetch them at a discotheque which is 5 km   off. There was a thick fog and snowfall. There was not enough   room in the car for all of them and they asked me to go there   once again. I did not do that they had a way to make me feel   guilty.
1465	anger	my mother kept me in leading-strings.
1466	sadness	my father died.
1467	disgust	I worked at the life-saving sevice and saw the first exitus.
1468	neutral	Last year I went to see friends in Yugoslavia - two girls with   whom I get along very well.
1469	fear	"Before I went to the urologist's I was afraid for several   reasons: because it was for the first time, because the medical   check-up might be painful, because of the uncertainty and because   someone had informed me about it."
1470	anger	My girl-friend did not understand me; I was angry with myself   because I had problems we seperated - I could not resign   myself to it.
1471	sadness	A friend who was 22 years old died.
1472	disgust	"I was in the army, we got a certain dish for dinner that I   do not like at all. We were not obliged to eat, but I was very   hungry."
1473	shame	I had to pay a fine because of speeding.
1474	guilt	"A friend who was 22 years old, died of leukemia; I had not known   that he was so ill and therefore had not cared."
1475	neutral	we got a young dog.
1476	fear	I was afraid before I went to the doctor's.
1477	anger	I had an accident with damage to the car body.
1478	sadness	My dog died of a cerebral tumor.
1479	disgust	I worked at the life-saving service I was disgusted by a   patient whose outward appearance was distasteful.
1480	shame	"I was a child, I had a medical check-up. I had to undress   myself and was examined by several doctors."
1481	neutral	"I heard that a good friend, who had been abroad for a long   time, would come and see me."
1482	anger	"I heard friends grumbling at me in an adjoining room, although   they had behaved in a friendly way I was present."
1483	disgust	I read about a murderer who brutalized his victims by cutting   open their stomaches and taking out their bowels.
1484	shame	I was a child: I had told my mother a lie and she found it   out.
1485	guilt	My father had been alone for a long time because my mother and   sister were on holiday. I had not seen him for a long time and   I finally called him I realized that he had been very sad   about that.
1486	neutral	I unexpectedly got a present from my father.
1487	fear	I had to go through lonely streets in the middle of the   night.
1488	anger	My boy-friend had promised me to come home at about 10 p.m. He   did not return until midnight and had consumed a lot of alcohol.
1489	sadness	"A relative, whom I like very much, left for the United States."
1490	disgust	"I was walking on the street, I slipped on the dung of a dog.   I did not fall down, but I felt disgusted by the bad smell on my   sole."
1491	shame	"Some persons, who are important for me, came to see me and I had   not washed the dishes."
1492	guilt	"I was looking after my cousin's little daughter; she fell down,   was slightly injured and cried vociferously."
1493	neutral	I met again a very good friend whom I had not seen for a long   time.
1494	fear	I got lost in a foreign town. I did not know the language of that   country and it took me hours to meet my friends again.
1495	anger	"A friend had promised to get me a book which was very important   for my work, but she forgot it."
1496	sadness	"My dog, whom I had had for eleven years, died. I watched his   soporification."
1497	disgust	A drunk man bumped into me and wanted to grip me. Fortunately I   was able to break loose.
1498	shame	"I stayed on a nudism beach, a man was watching me in a   disagreeable way. I had the feeling that he was examining my   body."
1499	guilt	"I had a quarrel with my father. He was depressed, because   somebody had treated him injustly. As we had an argument, it was   impossible for me to help him."
1500	neutral	My friend came to see me after she had stayed abroad. I waited at   the station.
1501	fear	After a motor accident (I was the frong-seat-passenger) I spit   blood.
1502	anger	At an office an application that I had made was turned down   because of a scrupulous interpretation of the rules.
1503	sadness	My uncle died - I felt sad at the funeral.
1504	disgust	I saw a drunk man tottering behind his wife and insulting her   awfully.
1505	guilt	I spread abroad an intimate secret.
1506	neutral	I bought a Christmas present for my girl-friend. On my way home I   was really glad about having found such a suitable thing.
1507	fear	"My fear appeared in the form of jealousy. I was afraid that my   girl-friend had fallen in love with another man, I was afraid to   lose her."
1508	anger	I was angry I watched a ski-race. All the Austrian skiers   dropped out.
1509	sadness	"During my holiday I met again a friend who had tried to commit   suicide. She had just left hospital, her lips were trembling, she   looked miserable."
1510	disgust	"On my way home in the middle of the night I saw a drunk man and a   woman who were quarreling, beating each other, shouting and so   on. I felt disgusted especially because they treated each other   in such a degrading way."
1511	shame	My girl-friend and I live in one flat with another couple. We get   along very well and usually we share everything. Once we two were   sitting in our room and eating a cake the others came in.
1512	guilt	"I was on a visit to friends who have a baby. The baby was crying   in another room, but soon it became quieter and it seemed that it   would fall asleep. I went into the room where the baby was lying   - and it started crying again. "
1513	neutral	"I went to fetch my girl-friend at the station. the train   arrived and I saw her descending and running up to me, I felt   glad."
1514	fear	"I wanted to go into a house, there was suddenly a big dog   standing beside me. It was hardly moving, but I did not know how   it would react later on."
1515	anger	"My father had bought too many goods for his shop, there was not   enough space to store them."
1516	sadness	A friend died of cancer he was 18 years old.
1517	disgust	At a party I saw two persons having a fight. The aggressions and   the hate between these persons produced an unpleasant impression   on me.
1518	shame	During a discussion I said something rather stupid and   unnecessary.
1519	guilt	"I was driving my car, I wanted to pick something from the   floor of the car and drove into the guide-rail. I thought that I   should not have done that and felt guilty."
1520	fear	I was awakened by a dream in the middle of the night. I dreamt   that a stranger was in my house.
1521	anger	My boy-friend had promised me to come an 10 a.m. - he was 3 hours   late.
1522	disgust	I heard about a murder of a 16-year-old girl.
1523	guilt	I was sitting in a restaurant with friends and I knew that in the   meantime my girl-friend must have come to my flat and found the   door closed.
1524	sadness	It was only once that I really felt sad: at my grandfather's   funeral (after a long time of suffering he had died of cancer).
1525	disgust	"3 years ago I served in the army. Once a collegue denounced me   because of a delict, which is usually committed. I was arrested   for 3 days. I still detest this man."
1526	shame	Once I went home totally drunk and roused all our neighbours from   sleep.
1527	neutral	"After I had had a disappointment in my private life, my friend,   who studies in Vienna, came to see me spontaneously."
1528	anger	A friend had promised me to give me a lift to Graz. To be sure I   called her before we went. She told me that she had just promised   another person to give him a lift.
1529	sadness	I am sad because some relations to friends are not very good.
1530	disgust	"I think I have hardly had a situation where I felt disgusted.   Perhaps once, I saw a big spider."
1531	shame	my boy-friend left me and I wanted to persuade him to stay.
1532	neutral	Seeing relations from overseas after a few years.
1533	fear	Unknown person knocking repeatedly on backdoor no one else   was at home.
1534	disgust	Accidentally seeing a friend in a compromising situation with a   stranger.
1535	shame	Parents finding out I smoked.
1536	guilt	Not thanking relatives for a favor done.
1537	neutral	Emotional reassurances by spouse.
1538	fear	Movement in bush late at night while camping.
1539	anger	Heated discussion with spouse concerning new house.
1540	sadness	Loss of close relative.
1541	disgust	The price I was charged for work on my car.
1542	shame	Caused fault in V.C.R. by not following instructions carefully.
1543	guilt	Losing my temper with my spouse.
1544	neutral	A night spent with a group of friends.
1545	fear	A car came very close to hitting me whilst I was crossing the   street.
1546	anger	"A friend whom I had gone out of my way to do something for did   not bother to acknowledge my efforts, and treated me badly   thereafter."
1547	disgust	"A friend once reacted childishly (he is 23 yearrs old) to my not   responding in his favour to a request, that is: he asked me for   some money I refused, and his reaction was quite childish."
1548	guilt	I borrowed money from a friend and did not pay back the debt   I said I would.
1549	neutral	Getting a phone call from a very old friend.
1550	fear	Before giving a seminar to a rather large audience.
1551	anger	Being stopped by the police for a traffic offence which I don't   think I committed.
1552	sadness	Death of a parent.
1553	disgust	At a social event none of the guests would help to serve   food or clear tables. It was all beneath them.
1554	shame	"The mother of a small child found me shaking the child in   exasperation, because I couldn't get it to sleep."
1555	fear	"I was a passenger in a jumbo-jet which was accelerating down the   runway and almost at the point of take-off, the pilot   suddenly braked and put the engines into reverse thrust, in an   obviously urgent attempt to stop the aircraft. The hostesses show   signs of concern and my first thought was that something was on   the runway in our path and that we were in danger of hitting it."
1556	anger	"A person walking his dog allowed it to defecate on the footpath   outside my house. Although it had happened before, this was the   first time I had witnessed it. All the skills I had learnt from   PY 263 were thrown out the window his indifference to my   protestation was obvious to me."
1557	sadness	"While walking through an old mining area, I unwittingly disturbed   a wallaby which, in its resultant flight, accidentally fell down   a deep mine shaft. On investigation it seemed uninjured, but it   was impossible for the wallaby to get out, and also for me to get   it out of the shaft. To prevent its suffering a slow death, I   shot it."
1558	disgust	"A colleague and I were sitting on a bench next to an old man in a   shopping centre. the old man coughed and spluttered somewhat,   then with his fingers removed the resultant phlegm and mucous   from his mouth, and transferred it onto the armrest of the   bench."
1559	shame	"I had promised to contact a friend about a particular matter by a   certain date, then thought no more about it until the friend   reminded me after the date had passed."
1560	guilt	A neighbour complained about smoke from my backyard incinerator   entering his house after a change of wind direction. I lit the   fire after originally checking that the wind would not blow the   smoke in that direction.
1561	fear	"I heard that there had been some women raped at uni, just   near where I usually park my car and walk by myself at night.   Although I wasn't in danger it unnerved me for days and I was   fearful whenever walking through the area."
1562	anger	"the person I am going out with let me down in a situation   that I was depending on them, and didn't show respect or care."
1563	sadness	I found out that a person I went to school with had died in   a car accident.
1564	disgust	"I heard about the way a parent of a friend had mistreated   him, and caused a great instability."
1565	shame	"I realised that I had become too emotionally involved with   the person I'm going out with, and I began to like someone   else and questioned whether I really care about person I'm with."
1566	guilt	"I came very late one night (or morning !) and my parents   were waiting, not so much angrgy as disappointed."
1567	neutral	One of my friends and I had breakfast in a restaurant. It was   spontaneous and lots of fun.
1568	fear	I was walking home late at night from lectures and someone   deliberately started following me. It was dark and I was scared.
1569	anger	"At one of my close friends saying she didn't like the way I am   nice to people I don't know, or who have been nasty to me."
1570	sadness	Leaving Melbourne to move interstate - leaving relatives and   friends behind.
1571	disgust	Disgust at a girl I know for continually feeling sorry for herself   and never acting positively to do something about her problems.
1572	shame	I am ashamed of the horrible way I used to treat my little   sister.
1573	neutral	I noticed that Meryl Streep and I had similar cheekbones and jaw   structure.
1574	fear	I do not recall being scared in the near past.
1575	anger	As for disgust.
1576	sadness	Girl I was fond of did not initiate conversation as I expected in   tutorial.
1577	disgust	"I realised that someone was insidiously attempting to shit me off   I was disgusted with him for doing so, because I afforded him   with no excuse to do so."
1578	shame	"I do not seem to feel emotion such as shame, guilt or fear - far   out !"
1579	guilt	I cannot recall feeling guilty in the near past. REMARK - SUBJECT MAY NOT HAVE TAKEN THE EXERCISE VERY SERIOUSLY.
1580	neutral	"I was complimented and called ""delightful""."
1581	anger	Anger towards my lover for being late.
1582	sadness	The death of my twin sister - suicide.
1583	disgust	Disgust with myself for consistently making foolish errors in   communicating with others (asking for 1/2 Kg of nuts I only   wanted 50 g).
1584	shame	"I had been rude to my mother at a time she needed   comforting, not anger (death of my sister)."
1585	guilt	Guilt - because I had not written to my sister for months before   she died.
1586	neutral	My current lover and I had been very busy with work and study and   had not had time alone together for almost a month until one   afternoon recently we made love for hours and then showered   and ate together.
1587	fear	A workmate and I had been antagonistic with each other for some   weeks - he had reacted violently to my criticisms of his work   standards.
1588	anger	"I had been having a heated argument with a lover - whose   intention was that we should marry in the near future - and was   rejected by her I started to cry. I stopped crying for   a moment she said ""There, have you got it all out now ?""."
1589	disgust	I discovered some pornographic literature in a workmates drawers.   The literature featured pictures of naked women defecating on one   another.
1590	shame	"Upon returning from a journey of about two weeks duration, I   found that a collection of pornographic literature had been   removed from my room I had previously thought that no one was   aware of the existence of this material."
1591	guilt	"My mother and father had forbidden me to ride my scooter on the   road, and I had transgressed (together with the ""wild"" kids from   across the street) by riding my scooter down a steep hill near   our house. My mother sent the boy next door to collect me, and I   was severely scolded."
1592	neutral	Blank.
1593	fear	"After going through a glass door, I sustained a number of serious   cuts which were gaping open."
1594	anger	The mother of a person with whom we had been sharing a housing   accused me of trying to rip her off over payment of bills in the   house. 
1595	sadness	"Watching ""11 am"". They had a programme on the starving refugees.   Their plight was a source of sadness for me."
1596	guilt	A girl whom I hadn't seen for a period of time told me that she   had been pregnant and had an abortion - I was the father.
1597	disgust	Disgust with oneself after being intoxicated enough to go to bed   with a stranger.
1598	shame	"I feel shame every time I think of very dear friends of mine   abroad who were family to me for a year, and now 2 years later, I   have attempted, but have not actually gone through with   corresponding with them, to express my feelings and gratitude."
1599	neutral	I thought that my high school love and I had a mutual   emotion.
1600	fear	I was on my surf ski. Rather large waves to strong current   separated me from my ski and we both began to drift slowly   (actually rather quickly) away to sea. The direction I was   drifting in was taking me straight over a reef on which rather   large sharks were constantly being caught. (I was alone with no   one to help me).
1601	anger	I was enneutraling the company of bird life while I was eating lunch   in a park a group of people began throwing sticks at some of   the birds - for no reason other than the satisfaction of seeing   them being scared away.
1602	sadness	"I left my sister's house after staying there for a few days.   She has two little boys, and they are very warm people (the   family). At the time, I was in need of this sort of contact, and   I grew very fond of children (no, I'm not a paedophiliac)."
1603	disgust	my father revealed inconsistent morals.
1604	shame	I woke up after a night of drinking I couldn't remember and   discovered several untoward things had occurred.
1605	guilt	Leaving home my mother thought I had no reason to go and   felt that I was rejecting her. She is a constantly depressed   person (a bit of a worry-wort) and I felt guilty about having   given her this additonal problem.
1606	neutral	I'd just got the top mark in an exam.
1607	anger	"I was at the corner shop, which I patronise regularly I had only   a $ 50 note and I purchased about $ 3 worth of goods that I   really needed - the keeper made sarcastic remarks to others about   people using him to cash notes."
1608	sadness	"My mother died of cancer after a 4 year illness - I think the   most pregnant moment of sadness was the next morning, just as the   sun rose."
1609	shame	I was walking outside the union refec after rain I tripped   and fell.
1610	guilt	I stole 5c from my mother's purse for a choo-choo bar - I was 6.
1611	neutral	"On a sailing boat at night, under a full moon, listening to Pink   Floyd, drinking good wine, with good company, the boat being   steered by autopilot, and a full eclipse of the moon."
1612	anger	my rights to use a shared house had been usurped by   co-owners out of pure selfishness.
1613	sadness	At rejection / being ignored by a loved person held in great   esteem.
1614	disgust	"Viewing the nuclear war film ""Threads""."
1615	shame	"Following heavy stirring / ridiculing a close friend who was   very vulnerable to such attack - inspiring fierce, defensive   counter-attack."
1616	guilt	"Guilt at having pressed another person to expose/explore his   personal weaknesses/faults, to the extent that the other person   was made to feel terrible/defensive."
1617	neutral	Family member survived an operation.
1618	fear	I was walking to my car at night and thought that I was being   followed.
1619	anger	I walked in on a teenage patient of mine (I work in a hospital)   as he was going through my office drawers and he had removed   money from my purse.
1620	disgust	I became aware that an acquaintance had stolen from friends.
1621	shame	Caught cheating on a diet.
1622	guilt	I had shown anger toward my dog and he was killed later that day.
1623	neutral	A close married friend has just had his first child.
1624	fear	Stranded in the north of Fraser Island with a submerged 4 WD hire   vehicle.
1625	sadness	"At the funeral of a friend about 20 years old, who was killed in   a hit-and-run motorcycle accident."
1626	disgust	A female friend was violently ill on the return journey from a   wedding reception we attended. Getting her out of the car   home took quite a while.
1627	shame	Cheating in a minor geography exam at school.
1628	neutral	Having received an offer to do post-graduate work.
1629	fear	Taking a trip to crocokile country I fell out of the boat and was   motivated by fear of being eaten to perform great swimming feats.
1630	anger	Last night - finding that someone in the house had eaten an   entire packet of almonds I had bought for a family treat.
1631	sadness	The loss of my father as he died of a massive and sudden heart   attack.
1632	shame	Having had a very heated argument with my sister - I began   hitting her about the head with a newspaper I was holding.
1633	guilt	A situation where I stole a friends wife's wallet.
1634	neutral	"Winning a tight tennis match. One set to play, and the team was   behind by 3 games. We won the last set 6-2 and won the match by a   game."
1635	fear	"at school, I threw a duster at another child and hit him in   the head. The blow caused a flesh wound and I was afraid of what   would happen to me the teacher found out the circumstances."
1636	anger	Finding that a subordinate at work was still not willing to   cooperate after discussions to try and resolve an attitude   problem.
1637	sadness	Death of the family dog.
1638	disgust	"We had friends to dinner and one of them threw a beer bottle in   the air, and it bounced on an expensive table and damaged the   table .The person did not apologise."
1639	shame	After making a joke about a friend's marriage that was too   personal.
1640	guilt	Carried out a vandalistic act on some windows at an old army   location.
1641	neutral	"Arriving in New Zealand as a teenager - first overseas trip -   something ""exhilarating"" about the change of scenery etc."
1642	fear	As a child (i.e. 5-7) hiking in reasonably rugged bush and   becoming lost for a duration of 5-7 hours.
1643	sadness	Leaving the house myself and a female friend had shared for 6-8   months because of the friendship which developed and our approach   to each other in occasional instances of several personal crises.
1644	disgust	"Discovering a good friend had lied to me, resulting in a   detrimental relationship with another person."
1645	shame	No specific instances - perhaps having lied as a child resulting   in someone else being blamed for the event.
1646	neutral	Going to a friend's wedding and seeing many of my old friends   whom I had known before I moved to a new district five years   previously.
1647	fear	"Car accident. Travelling as a passenger along narrow bitumen road   at night - trying to overtake semi-trailer. The truck pulled over   onto our side and we hit the wet dirt, swerved back into the   truck, back onto the verge, over a guide post and into a ditch."
1648	anger	At school I had a shouting argument with a friend over my   ability to carry out a particular duty in the correct way without   harming her.
1649	sadness	"Looking up end-of-semester results, and finding I'd failed three   out of seven (subjects)."
1650	disgust	I found out some family friends were embezzelling the   company they worked for - using company petrol and food supplies   and claiming furniture and crockery.
1651	shame	my best friend foud out I'd been lying about something I'd   been doing behind her back.
1652	guilt	"After having told an authority figure a very large lie I was told   she believed me, because she believed I had never lied to her. "
1653	neutral	"After being away on a holiday for 2 months, a friend, who lived   interstate, had remembered I'd get back and phoned to   welcome me home on the night of my arrival."
1654	fear	Walking along with a dog barking at you and following you.
1655	anger	Doing a group assignment and being left to do all the work and   take the blame for any mistakes.
1656	sadness	After training for an Australian championship competition for a   year and then injuring myself 2 weeks before the competiotion.
1657	disgust	Someone ruining someone's property just for the fun of it.
1658	shame	A friend giving me an expensive Christmas gift while I gave her a   cheap one.
1659	guilt	Talking about someone behind their back.
1660	neutral	"I was captain of the school swimming team. The team was only two   points in front before the last relay. We won the relay, which I   swam in, and thus my team won the championship."
1661	fear	"I was in about Grade 7, I came home from school one day and was told   that my mother had skin cancer and would have to go to the hospital   straight away."
1662	sadness	Shifted from Melbourne to Brisbane. All my old school friends   gave me a party and I had to say good-bye to them all.
1663	disgust	Was picking up my father from work and on passing through the   Valley watched three prostitutes walk up and down waiting for   someone to pick them up. Clothing was disgusting.
1664	shame	Had a very good friend. We grew apart I found myself running her   down to other friends.
1665	guilt	Guilt after fighting with my sister (for) telling her how bad she   was.
1666	neutral	"I won the ""Under 18"" Showjumping at the Brookfield Show. The   competition was very stiff and there were many riders competing."
1667	fear	"I was on holiday, walking back to where I was staying, at   night, and two men started closely following me. There was nobody   around that I could run to."
1668	anger	"my mother and father split up I was angry: I felt deprived   and ""different"" from other children at school."
1669	sadness	"I was terribly upset my kitten got hit by a car. He didn't   die, but for several weeks we thought he might have to be put   down."
1670	disgust	"I heard that one of my good friends, at a party, had   got herself involved with some very undesirable characters and   was experimenting with drugs."
1671	shame	"I hadn't studied for an exam, so I pretended to be sick so I   wouldn't have to go to school. I lied to my mother - she realized   I had been lying she got home from work and found that I had   been over to a friend's place."
1672	guilt	"I was young, I stole some money from my mother's purse. It   wasn't very much, but I can remember she found it gone I   felt very guilty."
1673	neutral	Day I received my T.E. score and acceptance into my chosen course.   
1674	anger	"At a school dance my supposed ""best friend"" kept walking   away from me whenever I came near her."
1675	sadness	"At end of school - function to ""celebrate"" ? Leaving friends who   I'd known for up to 12 years."
1676	disgust	"While watching a film of an experimental operation on a cat's   brain in which the cat had metal pieces protruding from its eyes,   mouth etc. to keep the head stable while being cut open."
1677	shame	"my mother asked me to do a job for her which does not   require much effort on my part, yet I refused for selfish reasons   and saw her have to do it."
1678	guilt	"After having been told not to take the car, I took it anyway and   felt guilty about having taken it."
1679	neutral	"Eating biscuits and drinking Milo (Chocolate energy drink made   with milk and usually drunk warm) with my friend at College. We   get on really well, don't withold any feelings about each other's   friends and are pretty good at cheering each other up we are   homesick."
1680	fear	Going to a disco by myself to wait for some friends. We had   separated and hadn't planned where to meet. I wasn't sure if they   were even going to this place so I felt very conscious of being   alone.
1681	anger	"A person ignored my advice, did not pay any attention to what was   saying. She acted as though I wasn't even there. We were doing   group work so everybody had the right to speak yet she just   ignored me. She made me feel insignificant."
1682	sadness	A friend of mine is having psychiatric problems because of his   mother's death ages ago. He is really quiet and because it   relates back to his childhood I feel sadness for him. He doesn't   lead a normal life and it just seems unfair.
1683	disgust	"At school, the only thing people my age could think of was getting   rolling drunk. They couldn't have a good time without firstly   getting drunk."
1684	shame	A girl I was with yelled something out to this group of guys I   knew. It sounded really childish.
1685	guilt	"I didn't tell my parents exacly what had made me so late in   getting home one night. I left out some details and somehow, I   felt I had lied to them."
1686	neutral	Getting a good mark for a subject I had worked hard at but   expected only a moderate mark.
1687	fear	"cleaning up a pile of junk under our house, a huge spider (a   ""Jungle Spider"") ran out near me. (I do not like even small   spiders)."
1688	anger	"At the hardware store, trying to convert Imperial to Metric   measurements, I made a mistake, and didn't buy enough tiles for   the bathroom. I was angry at myself, because I hope to be a Maths   teacher."
1689	sadness	My father died last year after an 8-week severe illness.
1690	disgust	"During the PY 102 film session on Tuesday, one of the films shown    was of an experiment on a live cat involving strapping it into a   machine for possibly days, and doing things to its brain."
1691	shame	Several years ago I was caught riding the train without a ticket.   The station-mistress treated me like a criminal almost.
1692	guilt	"I was walking quite quickly and unthinking through a children's   playground, a toddler ran in front of me I knocked him over   and he hit his head quite hard and began crying."
1693	neutral	I got a good reaction from my tutor and tutorial group for a   presentation I'd given that I was very worried about.
1694	fear	"A man was yelling outside my window at 3.00 am, yelling threats,   though not to me."
1695	anger	"Going away for the weekend, leaving my College room open - I   returned several friends had had a party there, leaving the mess."
1696	sadness	Passing away of my father.
1697	disgust	At a party where the boys were telling revolting stories about   the girls they'd been with.
1698	shame	Getting slightly intoxicated at the 1984 I.C.C. Ball.
1699	guilt	I felt guilty about going out I should have been studying   for a presentation I had to give on Wednesday the next week.
1700	anger	"I received the mark well above requirements for the course I   wanted to enter, yet I was not accepted - anger at the injustice   of it, because I didn't receive early release of H.S.C. marks."
1701	sadness	"I left all my friends at school (break up) knowing we would   probably all go our separate ways, and none see one another for a   long time."
1702	disgust	"At my father, he yelled and accused my sister's friend (over   the phone) of doing something he didn't do, or know anything   about."
1703	shame	"I was little and didn't own up to placing a lolly on the   varnish, this pulled it all off and I didn't admit my guilt."
1704	fear	At the tender age of eleven a friend and I left a party and   proceeded to walk through dark and secluded streets of a bad   neighborhood to find a telephone (recent spate of Horror Movie   watching had occurred).
1705	anger	In a situation whereby a friend's actions were deliberately   against my wishes and (with) no regard to my feelings.
1706	disgust	A situation where I ignored my beliefs and principles for a trip   of whimsy.
1707	shame	I bacame involved with a boy for a very brief moment not because   I liked him but because I needed some sort of company. The   consequences weren't as I expected and caused me much shame.
1708	guilt	Ignoring my parents'wishes.
1709	fear	Having my luggage checked at Customs.
1710	anger	a friend wouldn't speak to me and wouldn't tell me why.
1711	sadness	Thinking about friends overseas.
1712	disgust	Hearing of a filthy situation over the phone.
1713	shame	Sending pictures home I'd put on so much weight.
1714	guilt	Borrowed someone else's towel without asking.
1715	neutral	"I opened my TE Score envelope, and saw I got into   Physiotherapy."
1716	fear	I was bringing in the shopping and nearly stood on a snake.
1717	anger	"I was accused of ""bitching"" about best friend."
1718	sadness	"At our Senior dinner - separated from school friends, nothing   will ever be the same again."
1719	disgust	At a night club watching little tarts trying to earn a living.
1720	shame	I was little - Mum caught me telling a lie about who broke   the cup.
1721	guilt	I used to tell Mum I was going somewhere else than where I   was (going).
1722	fear	I was caught in an elevator and it got stuck between floors.
1723	anger	I was put into a tennis team below my standard.
1724	sadness	my father died.
1725	disgust	I have seen people very drunk and making fools of   themselves.
1726	shame	my friends were rude to a girl. 
1727	guilt	I was rude to my mother and got angry with her.
1728	fear	"somebody broke into our home one night my mother was   out, and my sister and I had just gone to bed."
1729	anger	my sister lost my favourite jumper at a party and failed to   tell me for several days after it happened.
1730	sadness	"my father passed away of cancer, I was extremely saddened.   He was not very old, which made matters worse. The actual death   was horrendous, but the moving funeral saddened me more so."
1731	guilt	I ate 12 biscuits one night after tea while watching TV - I don't   know why.
1732	fear	"I was seven years old and swimming outside the flags at the Gold   Coast. I was caught in a rip and taken out about 100 m. I   couldn't swim too well, but an older friend (17) swam out and   saved me."
1733	anger	"While at school I had to write an essay for doing something wrong   that I didn't do. I wrote the essay about how I was mistreated and   got Saturday morning detention along with a few other kids, but   they didn't show up."
1734	sadness	one of my closest friends died unexpectantly.
1735	disgust	I saw a male engineer one year and came back to find he was   now a female (I don't know it/them personally).
1736	guilt	We owned a shop and I used to serve in it occasionally. We   sometimes took lollies out of the stand and Dad caught me one   day.
1737	shame	Lying to a friend about something that was trivial.
1738	guilt	"I had promised to do a task for someone that was close to me, and   from the outset I knew it was important that I do it, but it   came to it, I let them down."
1739	neutral	Good news about a sick relative.
1740	fear	Walking in the dark by myself.
1741	anger	"Getting terrible meals, but paying heaps for them."
1742	sadness	felt lonely about writing my family.
1743	disgust	Person talking about a situation while eating.
1744	shame	Felt it after I spoke terribly (got mad at) the person who is the   most important in my life.
1745	guilt	Not giving up something for Lent.
1746	fear	Every time I see a spider or a snake.
1747	sadness	The first time I left home.
1748	disgust	"On a camp - boys and girls in one cabin. One guy forced himself   upon another girl and was having intercourse, while the girl in   the bunk beneath was pretending to be asleep and not be ill."
1749	shame	my new jeans split while I was with the youth group.
1750	guilt	"I was 17, I told Mum I came in at midnight, really it   was 3.30."
1751	neutral	Can't remember specific event - besides just being moderately   happy until a year or so ago.
1752	fear	Left alone in dark young.
1753	anger	Can't remember exact example.
1754	sadness	Close relative is dying of cancer - found out last week.
1755	disgust	"Doctors ignored relative who complained about pain, and is now   dying of cancer."
1756	shame	"One of my best friends'fiancT broke off the relationship because   his feelings for me were stronger than for her. I felt the same   for him, but did not really encourage him to leave her or stay   with her - still felt shame."
1757	sadness	After the fact that made me ashamed I felt sadness.
1758	disgust	A person that eat half of a cockroach in a cake without knowing   it.
1759	shame	"A situation where we were the center of attention, and things   happened without my control on them, that showed our disagreement,   and ignorance."
1760	guilt	I let a person assume a fault that I committed.
1761	neutral	"finally I found a place to live, I felt relieved, predicting   changes in my life, and I became happy."
1762	fear	I dreamed that I was being attacked by a friend.
1763	anger	I was left by the person I loved without any reason.
1764	sadness	To fight with a sister and to know that she doesn't care.
1765	disgust	To be kissed by soembody I didn't expect to.
1766	shame	"A day I was getting out of the shower I covered only the   front part of my body with a towel (I was 7 years old), and I   didn't see that my cousin was in the room."
1767	guilt	I finished a love affair where I was responsible of the sad   end.
1768	fear	"I felt fear once I was asleep and dreamed that I was dying   asfixiated by a cardiac attack, I was afraid and woke up   desperate. Altough I wasn't afraid of death I was afraid."
1769	anger	I feel it I see that somebody is traying to made a stupid of   me.
1770	sadness	I felt it I was at home and saw a discussion without sense   between my parents.
1771	disgust	I see all the putridness of people. The fact is the catarrh   and spits that whash the streets of S.Paulo.
1772	fear	I almost drowned myself in the municipal swimming pool that   I use to go almost not excaping.
1773	sadness	The death of my grandfather.
1774	disgust	To go through the underground way at suburb station of LAPA. Poor   people and the ambulants badly dressed up in a passage badly   kept.
1775	guilt	I pointed a failure of a friend of mine.
1776	neutral	I met a friend that I hadn't seen for some time.
1777	fear	I got in jungle where there was a great number of snakes.
1778	anger	an unknown person provoked me verbaly and physically.
1779	sadness	my team lost a championship.
1780	disgust	"A dirty person, smelling bad and unknown laying on me."
1781	shame	I confused a girl with another.
1782	guilt	Once I complained I caused a great discussion between my   parents.
1783	neutral	I began to date a boy with whom I am till now. This was 16   months ago.
1784	sadness	I got separated from the man I loved.
1785	disgust	An acquaintance of mine revealed himself in a light unexpected to   me.
1786	guilt	I was in a sanatorium. In front of me a boy fell down from his   invalid's chair. I could help him but I didn't. I felt like being   paralysed.
1787	fear	I was to sit for my first entrance exam. I had fear of a   possible failure.
1788	anger	I was indignant at the unimpartiality shown by the referees at   the football match between Bulgaria and France.
1789	sadness	I got separated from the man I loved so much.
1790	disgust	"I was watching some scenes from the Bertoluchi's film   ""Twentieth Century""."
1791	guilt	"I have sometimes been unfair to my parents, I have   happened to deceive them over some trifling things."
1792	fear	I come home late at night.
1793	anger	"I talk to silly, petty-minded and unmanageable people."
1794	sadness	my friend (girl) went abroad for two years.
1795	disgust	I happen to witness some sadistic acts.
1796	shame	I have a plain appearance.
1797	guilt	someone is accused or punished instead of me.
1798	fear	I was bitten by a dog.
1799	anger	My grandfather's funeral.
1800	sadness	I was alone at home on New Year's Eve.
1801	disgust	I was on a walk with my child I met a drunk woman.
1802	shame	I was unaware that I had walked the streets in torn trousers.
1803	guilt	Once I worked as a designer. A fitter was hard hit in a damage   that occurred at the building site I had designed.
1804	fear	A grenade blew out next to me.
1805	anger	An unjust calumny concerning me.
1806	sadness	Unrealisation of the desired profession (aviator).
1807	disgust	Disgust with a subordinate.
1808	shame	I lied to a friend.
1809	guilt	Betraying someone's trust.
1810	guilt	Friend's fiancT left her for me.
1811	neutral	Winning Queensland Chess Championship.
1812	fear	"in a car accident where car was total wipe off (wipe out, or   write off)."
1813	anger	With self at losing an important game that I should have won.
1814	sadness	Death of grandfather (unexpected).
1815	disgust	Someone smoking on Electric train (Electric trains are   non-smoking) with alcohol smell coming from person.  
1816	shame	bathing at surf beach & lost togs.
1817	neutral	"Receiving a very personal letter from a lady that I like, which   revealed that she was more enthusiastic about me than I had   thought possible."
1818	sadness	"I left my home in Melbourne to come to Q'land to study and before   I hopped in the car I hugged my mother and shook hands with my   father. Sensing immediately my father's sadness, I also had a   flood of the same emotion."
1819	disgust	"one of my parents verbally, personally abused the other."
1820	shame	"I felt something akin to shame after a heavy night of drinking,   along with waking up with a woman I had just met whose husband   was an epileptic. I was later to know that she knew my mother."
1821	guilt	"I felt guilty about talking negatively, and agreeing with a   person who was doing likewise, about a non-present third person."
1822	neutral	Being in love for the first time.
1823	fear	As a child - stepping on a rusty nail - being told that I might   get tetanus.
1824	anger	"As a child - about 8 years old - walking across a paddock - being   set upon by another boy who claimed it was ""his land"" - being   intimidated by the boy - crying, being punched, etc."
1825	sadness	As a child - having a dog - it getting a disease and dying.
1826	shame	As a child - being sent to the shop by mother - buying some   chocolate - getting caught by mother.
1827	guilt	As a child - accidentally stepping on a pet guinea-pig - it   dying.
1828	fear	"One night going downstairs, and hearing a strong stirring of   brances, which was not the wind."
1829	anger	"I was informed by my flatmate that, we'd moved into our   flat, she'd expected us to buy our food separetely - this event   actually happened some 5 months after our sharing began. Prior to   this, she had said nothing."
1830	sadness	"Having to decide on a termination of a pregnancy, after   discussing it with friends, family and the man involved."
1831	disgust	a friend didn't invite her own parents to her Graduation   ceremony.
1832	shame	"Saying something quite rude, but in jest, about a photograph of   someone, but it didn't quite turn out that way."
1833	guilt	"I was about 14 years old, I ""borrowed"" a can of drink from   the refrigerator, intending to replace it later that day. But it   was found missing before I could do anything - no one owned up to   its disappearance."
1834	neutral	"I was a child, my beloved cat gave birth to four beautiful   little kittens. Before she had them, she came up to me and I   followed her out, then witnessed them being born."
1835	sadness	"Upon moving away from home for the first time to a different   city, I felt no longer ""under the wing"" of my parents even though   they would always be there to help me. I felt a sense of loss, I   was now all alone in the world, responsible for my own actions."
1836	disgust	"I was sitting at a rock concert, listening to an extremely loud   band. A tiny baby in a crawler had been left by his young mother,   right out in the sun next to a speaker, and was screaming -   probably in pain."
1837	shame	"Because I was lazy and unthoughtful I did not get into contact   with a very close friend she shifted from the Gold Coast to   Brisbane, for a month, despite her efforts to contact me. I felt   shamed I finally confronted her again."
1838	fear	"Before Uni started, I had to leave home and take up residence in   Brisbane (the ""big smoke"") leaving home, my family, and moving to   such a big place was quite intimidating at first, and I was   anxious about it."
1839	sadness	"A very close friend from Victoria visited me over the holidays.   Having enneutraled his company immensely over 10 short days, I was   overwhelmed by sadness he left to return to Victoria.  "
1840	disgust	"One of my flatmates and I came back to the flat Monday morning,   to find a real Mess, left by the guy we share with."
1841	shame	"First weekend back home after one week at Uni I scolded one of my   sister's best friends for using our telephone. Very silly, but I   was annoyed because she was there at a time I needed to be   with my family."
1842	neutral	"neutral of giving birth, and of sharing that neutral with my husband.   Moments of complete happiness and feelings of so much love."
1843	fear	"Attempted rape by 5 guys - held my arms behind my back and   molested me, constantly threatening to beat me. Penetration did   not occur as the driver of the car stopped that."
1844	anger	"Anger at doctors for their treatment of me after giving birth.   They left part of placenta behind and I bled heavily for twelve   weeks - due to this, I felt weak and emotional, and they said I   needed psychiatric treatment and give me no support."
1845	sadness	"my son was diagnosed as having CEREBRAL PALSY, at age 5. He   would have to endure so much labelling, stigma and discrimination,   even though his case was relatively mild."
1846	disgust	I have an adopted Aboriginal sister I felt disgust due to the   racism she has been subjected to.
1847	shame	I can't remember ever feeling shame.
1848	guilt	"I decided my first marriage had ended, and left with the   child. I felt overwhelmed by guilt as I was separating mother and   child."
1849	neutral	"Receiving notification that I had made a successful application   to the Speech Therapy course at Uni, gave me a very good feelig   of achievment and neutral."
1850	fear	Not included on questionnaire.
1851	sadness	"My mother left my father for his best friend, and he moved to   Papua New Guinea. Despite the fact that I am closer to my father   than to anyone else in my family, I had to move in with my   mother, and say good-bye to my father, not knowing I would   see him again."
1852	disgust	"I discovered my mother had been having an affair with my   father's best friend, and then ran away with him without even   speaking to me about what she was doing letting me come home from   school simply to find her gone. I was filled with disgust and   contempt."
1853	guilt	I once stole a shirt from the Department Store in which I work. I   have been promoted to work in a very privileged section of the   store. Their belief in my integrity makes me feel even guiltier.
1854	neutral	Seeing a close friend who had just returned from twelve months   overseas.
1855	fear	Finding myself alone in a public toilet block with a man known to   have had great psychological disturbances.
1856	anger	"After seeing an ""uncertain"" child work on a model for several   hours, I watched a ""bully"" of the same age destroy it, telling   the child that it was worthless."
1857	disgust	Viewing the results of senseless vandalism to a local primary   school.
1858	shame	I slept with a man purely because I found him physically   attractive and was under the influence of alcohol.
1859	guilt	"Inventing a fictitious series of events, as a result of which I   ended up in a conflict with my two closest friends."
1860	fear	"going for my driver's licence for the third time, because   everything, it seemed, hinged on getting it. I was really nervous,   and the testing Officer made me a little afraid as well. There   were lots of things to worry about. I passed however."
1861	anger	"a so-called friend let me down, she promised to tell me   a certain concert was occurring, and that she'd get me   tickets. I was really looking forward to it. She did nothing,   just told me out of the blue one day what a fantastic concert it   was going to be."
1862	sadness	my family heard that my Mother's cousin who lives in   England wrote us to tell that he had cancer of the lymph glands.
1863	disgust	"I found out how the people of Ethiopia were starving and   their government was spending millions on celebrating being in   power so many years. Then I saw all these people on TV needing   food, etc."
1864	shame	"I went to visit Montrose home for crippled children to interview   a handicapped child. I interviewed two boys and it went really   well. I promised I would visit them, but never got the time. Now I   hope they've forgotten me, but I feel ashamed of letting them   down."
1865	guilt	"I was driving my parents' car into a carpark in front of a shop   we own, and scraped the corner of the front panel on the back   corner of my father's utility. I didn't tell anyone, I lied about   the bump (later I had to confess)."
1866	anger	One day in a crossroad somebody crashed my car. I got out and   this person laughed at me. I felt such a great anger that I got   in my car and went away.
1867	disgust	Returning home in the late afternoon I saw an indecent act made   by a man with the purpose that I saw it.
1868	shame	In a school parting we agreed to go to a restaurant.   We met at school and we separated us in several cars. My car   broke and we arrived late. All those who already had arrived   stand up and applauded us we entered two hours late.   All the restaurant attention was turned on us.
1869	fear	One night I and my friends went to the cemetery. We stopped the   car in front of the wall and suddenly the grave digger appeared   over the wall looking like a ghost. I was already afraid and   almost died.
1870	anger	one teacher unjustly gave me zero in a test saying that I   was cribbing.
1871	shame	the teacher asked me to read my composition that was the   homework I stood up and invented one because I hadn't done it. A   colleague saw that in my copy book there was nothing written and   he accused me and so I was called in the director's room.
1872	neutral	in the end of a semester I got the approval in a matter that   I judged very difficult.
1873	fear	Crossing a street of several ways the cars began to move and I   thought that I was going to be trampled.
1874	anger	"I went to the school library and asked for a book, but the   librarian told me that there wasn't such. However an other   colleague asked for it she gave it to him."
1875	sadness	Some colleagues decided to go out on a Saturday not inviting me   to decide either the place nor the time.
1876	disgust	A teacher giving a test was called by a student by his first   name. He (the teacher) said that he didn't give him this liberty.
1877	guilt	I answered to my mother with rudeness.
1878	neutral	The situation in which I felt happiest in my life was   I was with the person I love for the first time.
1879	fear	Fear of thief.
1880	anger	I feel anger somebody forbids me to do something.
1881	sadness	I felt sad I was despised by another person.
1882	disgust	I felt disgust of dirty.
1883	shame	Shame of not doing something well.
1884	guilt	I felt guilty I couldn't help a person.
1885	fear	I was inside the car with my husband and we were assaulted with a   gun at 10 o'clock in the evening.
1886	anger	they changed my office to another room without my agreement.
1887	sadness	"I couldn't sleep, and began to remind of my childhood. We are many   sisters and at that time we were spanked a lot and I don't know   why I started to remind of the spanks they and I had had, their   shouts this happened."
1888	disgust	I red a report in the magazine VESA about an Iranian telling   what she had lived in the prisons in Iran. I felt disgust about   that people.
1889	shame	I made a comment that at the moment didn't fit.
1890	neutral	"I was in ILHA GRANDE with a wonderful sun, with wonderful people,   with a wonderful sea, with a wonderful boy."
1891	fear	I was looking for a job I felt a lot of fear but the fear   was greater I found it.
1892	disgust	"I had this feeling I met a girl, not that she was dirty but   she was to ""fresh"", dump and childish."
1893	shame	"I was very fat, and was ashamed of my body."
1894	neutral	I felt happy my mother borrowed me the car in order to let   me go out alone for the first time.
1895	fear	I felt afraid I smoked maryhuana for the first time in my   life with a lot of friends in the middle of the street at day   brake.
1896	anger	"I felt anger I had a fight with my father, and he beated me.   My mother came to help me (because I was beeing beated) and he   also beated my mother."
1897	sadness	It happened I lost two very intimate friends in a car   accident.
1898	disgust	I felt disgust of my father I knew he had a lover.
1899	shame	my mother found out that I smoke maryhuana.
1900	neutral	Always I am well succeded.
1901	fear	there is danger nearby.
1902	anger	I feel anger things don't come out as I wish.
1903	sadness	I couldn't go for a trip with my friends in a holiday.
1904	disgust	Disgust of drunkers and of blood.
1905	shame	Shame of being reprehended.
1906	neutral	"there was a possibility of getting on better in professional   life. I valorized very much this aspect. People showed me this   possibility, not the real fact (even because until now ...)"
1907	fear	"I was curious about it and went to a spiritism session with a   friend. I had already been there other times (many times I   was younger) but that day, even if I don't believe in   spiritism I was terribly afraid that something would happen to me   (sort of incorporation !)."
1908	anger	they denied a job to a person that I propsed giving political   reasons that has nothing to do directly with the professional   level.
1909	sadness	"During an informal talk with a friend we talk about the life   of another person, a common friend, that is in a situation of not   being able to assume certain problems that he decided to solve,   that is, she herself suggested the problems and decided to solve   them but didn't get it until the moment."
1910	disgust	"my friends and I were camping in a weekend, and with little   food, we met a middle age couple from a small town that invited   us to eat in their house. Their house was small, badly built with   old and dirty forniture and utensils. The problem was with pans,   and dishes, and even the food."
1911	neutral	I got a wedding ring of diamond from the boy I loved.
1912	fear	"Afraid of getting alone without friends, without anybody."
1913	anger	they stole my dark blue tennis.
1914	disgust	I went in a clinical hospital and saw in what conditions   people are attended there.
1915	neutral	I met again a great friend and talked a little while with   him. I see again another I miss.
1916	fear	"I feel afraid of the way a great friend looks at me, and also a   little afraid of the directions that it's going."
1917	anger	"I felt anger of a friend she met ""a date"" and become nervous   and pest as she always gets she meets him."
1918	sadness	"I knew almost the same day about two great friends of mine   that had serious existential crisis, and mainly I notice   that I'm in the same situation that they are, but I didn't   realize it."
1919	disgust	"some friends and I get acquainted a guy during vacations I   thought he was disgusted and ""a friend"" of mine for whom I feel a   little disgust wanted to stay with him."
1920	shame	I felt shame I had to talk with a person that I hadn't seen for   many years. Shame that he wouldn't recognize me or that I   wouldn't know what to say.
1921	guilt	"I wished secretly and lied to a friend of mine because I   didn't want her to stay in my house on the beach (as she always   does), and wouldn't stick on me."
1922	disgust	a girl that I liked didn't accept my curting.
1923	guilt	"my father had a serious fight with my sister, because of me."
1924	neutral	"I met a girl and asked her for a date and she agreed, (I   thought this girl would never like me), this was an emotion of   neutral."
1925	fear	"The same fact about the girl (22 years, married - guilt -   disgust), the fear was the main factor in our relationship."
1926	anger	About the car (sadness) I felt anger the way I acted after   negotiating it.
1927	sadness	To buy a car and didn't like the business and the car.
1928	disgust	"I met a girl (22 years old), married. I liked her. I asked her   for a date and I kissed her. I discovered that she lived nearby   where I passed every day. I got amused thinking that her husband   would be ... or me . I didn't talked to her anymore."
1929	shame	"my mother looked in my drawer (where I keep my personal   things) and she found some porno photos that I have kept from   more than a week, and split it."
1930	guilt	"About the girl (22 years, married) I felt guilty of the   relationship."
1931	fear	"I was visiting my parents in law the house was invaded by   three strange men, and they committed an armed assault."
1932	anger	"Nearby the end of the year my wife and I were having a car ride,   it appears another vehicle, driven by a drunk driver and   provokes an accident."
1933	neutral	"To have a friend who I didn't see for months, and under the   circumstances that I met him made me feel happy, and perhaps   because it has been one of the good things that I learned with   this friend."
1934	fear	"I left a carnaval ball at 4 o'clock a.m. I was alone in a   foreign city and I had to go back home, a guy appeared and   tried to ""catch me""."
1935	anger	The fact that I hadn't been informed about something and I had the   greatest trust in this person.
1936	sadness	"A friend of mine lent me his apartment for holidays and besides   this he was a fine person. Months later I knew that he died   tragically in a moto accident. He was very young, and I felt sad   and couldn't believe it (until today)."
1937	disgust	In contact with a poor family of northeast it was offered to me a   crab to eat at my request. But the fact that this crab was   prepared antihygienically and his appearence was also   antihygienically it caused me disgust but I ate it anyway.
1938	guilt	"Attending to a demand made by a client (I work in a bank) I   suggested her an application of money in a week ahead, but I   informed her wrongly. The client arrived a week after and the   application wasn't made and she lost with this a lot of time and   money."
1939	neutral	"When, after a long time of searching I got my first job."
1940	fear	After some time of work I was transferred to another place and in   an other quite harder job.
1941	anger	"I used to go to my chief asking about any doubt about the job   and he didn't care, didn't answer me, leaving me speaking alone."
1942	sadness	"I knew that a person that I liked very much didn't react the   way I would like to, even that I knew about his feelings for me."
1943	disgust	"I knew that a person who I didn't like, had about me other   feelings."
1944	shame	"After lot of explanation, to fail in my work."
1945	neutral	a person that I like very much got near to me.
1946	fear	"I was at home alone, and heard noises on the roof, and doorknobs,   and drawers."
1947	anger	"a person is privileged in account of situations that are   unjust, and disloyal to colleagues and friends."
1948	sadness	"I was betrayed by a friend, and decided to stay apart form   her."
1949	disgust	After a serie of facts that occurred between a colleague and me I   started to feel a certain necessity to get apart and I didn't want   to see her anymore.
1950	shame	"I went to study in a public library but I didn't know it well. I   got a book and wanted to study hearing music. Then I went to a   place were I could do it, but I passed by a door a bell rang   and a man came saying that I couldn't leave with the book."
1951	guilt	I broke the gutar of a colleague but as it happened in a moment   nobody was present I could escape from the guilt.
1952	fear	I remember I was a child of a storm that made me terribly   afraid. I thought that the house was coming down and that in the   next day I would be dead. Everybody was awake and I stayed all   night in bed without falling asleep.
1953	anger	Once in my work it happened a fight between the person in charge and me. I   got so angry and spoke out everything I felt at the moment.
1954	disgust	"I was sitting in school, waiting for my sister to go home. Suddenly a   boy put fire in a paper and threw it were I was sitting. The   paper didn't get me, but I felt terribly disgusted at this   cowardliness and irresponsibility that caused a great   discussion. We went to the director and he, drunk as always, said   that I was ... attention in school. I felt disgust of this   situation, and of the persons implicated in it."
1955	guilt	"In adolescence I had a very violent fight with my sister I hold   her stong in her neck, she had a throat surgery what make me feel   guilty about the future reactions she might had injuring the   surgery."
1956	neutral	"The day I received the key of my apartment and we could enter in   it, for my fiancT and I had bought it yet in plans, and it seemed   to us that this was almost impossible to happen."
1957	fear	"I had a driver licence but I didn't drive for a long time, than I   started to drive again, and had to get into hard transit and   highways."
1958	anger	"my boss cut off my vacations saying that in that month it   wouldn't be possible, and after some time he let another girl   take vacations that month. The anger was because of the   resentment. Resulting from our bad relationship."
1959	sadness	My fiancT's family was adopting a 5 years old boy. I felt   myself close to him as I never felt before. After some time his   mother demanded the care of the kid and we were obliged to send   him back.
1960	disgust	"There is a girl at my work that doesn't take care much of her   hygiene she comes always with her hair oiled, a not very agreable   smell, and a bad appearance. Beside this she tries to be nice."
1961	guilt	"I was starting in romance with my husband, we went out to   curt, and we stayed in the car ""making love"". At the time I was   seventeen and I was very immature until a day I lost my   virginity."
1962	neutral	It was a friend took me to a place and gave me as a gift my   astrologycal map with the explanations of a psychologist.
1963	fear	"I was dreaming that I was being chased, in the upmost of   horror the door of the closed felt down synchronicaly with the   dream scare."
1964	anger	"my mother slapped me in the face, I felt anger at that   moment."
1965	sadness	I deeply felt that I could lose the person I love best   because of my foolishness.
1966	disgust	I felt disgust toward meat I felt sick with the steak after   a week only on meat.
1967	shame	I had to act alone a character for a public (40 people).
1968	guilt	I stared to much at a pastry that a woman was eating and at   the same instant the pastry felt on the floor.
1969	neutral	"In a day at work, in school, and relationships came out as I   wanted, and I was recognized in my work."
1970	fear	"I woke up in the middle of the night because of a dream, it   wasn't a nightmare, it was an uninteligible dream in wich I woke   because of a certain end."
1971	anger	I was robbed in a bus.
1972	sadness	I try to get closer at a person and she misinterpreted me.
1973	disgust	I felt the smell of industries that pollute.
1974	shame	"somebody I knew greeted me and started to talk with me and I   didn't know, I couldn't remember who he was."
1975	guilt	I unjustly accused a person of my family of something she   didn't really do.
1976	neutral	"I was travelling in the South of Brasil, near the end of the   year. I was well settled with 3 friends. At the evening of 31 M.,   somebody, also with us, took from his purse pints of all colours,   and the 4 of us, and other friends, that were at the same beach,   painted each other and we went to the beach with champagne."
1977	fear	"I was walking from my friend's house, a few blocks from my house, a   car began to follow me. He waited I passed by it rotateed a little and   stopped on my way. I changed completely my way and the car went   on following me until I turned at a corner and running I hid in a   garden of a house, waiting for the car to pass by. I went back home   terribly afraid."
1978	anger	"One day I lent my tennis I just had washed to my sister because   she asked it. I asked her not to soil it as I had just washed it.   Next day I looked at the tennis, and it was dirty with wax. She   could not have soiled it. It was lack of consideration. I felt   very angry."
1979	sadness	The second time I went to the entrance exam to V.S.P. and   didn't get approved.
1980	disgust	"I was travelling, we were 15 person, one of them I met at the   travel and didn't like her. One night I was asleep while she and   her friends were talking too loud in the kitchen. I got up to ask for   silence and since that day I felt constant disgust for her."
1981	shame	"I was working in I. a friend of mine borrowed his car so I   could get bach there, I had to come to S.Paulo and his car was   here. He said :""you get the car tell my mother that you are   only taking the car bacause I asked, for she doesn't like me to   borrow it"". Next day he borrowed me it again for I had to come   back again. I was coming back I crashed the car quite a lot.   One of the first person I met at the accident was his mother,   that said to me ""You weren't to take the car only yesterday ?""   (before I saw her I was already ashamed)."
1982	guilt	"I had a date with a boy, but I didn't feel liked, and didn't go,   I wasn't home purposely at the time we arranged."
1983	fear	I felt afraid of losing somebody I love to another person because   I was an incomprehensive person and lots of time I fight with   this person.
1984	disgust	In a certain occasion I saw a dog in the street eating something   so strange gooey that I wasn't able to eat lunch because I   remembered the scene all the time.
1985	guilt	"my parents fight lots of time, I'm the reason of the   fight, I feel guilty."
1986	neutral	I knew about my first job.
1987	fear	I was just to be divorced.
1988	anger	My mother in law slept in my bed.
1989	fear	A terrible fight that I provoked with my friend.
1990	sadness	I was 10/11 years old my father travelled very much for his   work (he passed three months away from home).
1991	disgust	I saw a film where snakes were crawling everywhere. I felt them   crawling over all my body with that ... skins. The noise that   they did disturbed me very much.
1992	shame	In a play (secret friend) during the time of the high school I   had to give a present to a boy and I was very ridiculous because   of this.
1993	guilt	I was a child I used to play with my cousin gushing wather   to each other in front of the door of my house. One day we   decided to gush with on a passing car. The driver stopped and   went to discuss with my mother and my aunt that were there.
1994	neutral	I got a small present form a person I like very much.
1995	fear	"a friend of mine discussed with me, I felt fear of losing   her. This occurred because we had a missunderstanding between   mutual colleagues."
1996	anger	a boy tried to fool me so he would be OK trying to show me   that he is a gook boy.
1997	shame	We where in a bar and my friend had a fight with some guys who   were in the table aside.
1998	guilt	I deny something to my sister and after a while I feel sorry   and try to bypass the situation.
1999	anger	I loved a person and he went away. It wasn't necessary that he   left me to reach his goals.
2000	sadness	"A close friend travelled to another country. I knew that he   would only come back after many years, I felt very sad."
2001	shame	"I began to date, the first gestures of affection made me   feel ashamed."
2002	neutral	I had a friend who I didn't see for a long time. We had a   relationship from much union and interaction. It was more that   one year that I didn't see her. She appeared in my home and we   talked.
2003	fear	I was sitting on the bus coming back from school. A man from   nearly forty years sat beside me. After a while I looked at him   and saw that he was looking at me with opened throusers and   holding his penis.
2004	anger	"My mother was ill and asked me to prpare our lunch. I went to do it,   and while I was working, she stayed behind me telling what I   had, or not to do. I asked her to stop meddling, and to go to   bed. I went to ask for help to my sister, my mother said that   I was proud, that I asked for help only I wanted and that I   wasn't able to cook by myself."
2005	disgust	"The same event described under FEAR - in the bus a man sat beside   me, with his trousers open and holding his penis."
2006	shame	I went to a halloween party and had to walk through a shopping   center dressed like a witch.
2007	guilt	"I had parked in a corner, and I was going out I didn't watch   if another car was coming and went out. The car that was coming   was obliged to stop suddenly. It didn't crash but for a little."
2008	neutral	I got a record as a gift from a friend.
2009	fear	"Once I crossed the street, and was nearly trampled by a car."
2010	anger	A girl entered in the division where I work and greeted everybody   but not me.
2011	sadness	A dear friend was removed from the division whre I work.
2012	disgust	somebody despised a friend of mine.
2013	shame	a friend told me a story and I stayed dumb because I had no   story to tell.
2014	guilt	"I slapped a nephew who did something that I considered   wrong, and I was reprehended for this."
2015	neutral	"I wanted to go out to walk but I didn't know either where or   with whom, suddenly an invitation appeared."
2016	fear	"Passing (by car) over a bridge where only one car could pass. There   was a precipice on both sides, no protection grilles, and the   bridge was completely muddled."
2017	anger	my chief accused me of an error that I hadn't made.
2018	sadness	I knew about my sister's in law finacial situation and what   she was facing.
2019	disgust	To see damaged lettuce (with worms) in the icebox.
2020	shame	a group of friends began to make critics about me.
2021	neutral	"I felt a great neutral I knew that my father was going to sell   the apartment from GUARUSA, because in some way we were helded by   it, that means that we didn't go to any other place, because we   had the apartment."
2022	fear	"The day that there was a black-out in the city, and I was in an   exposition, I felt fear that something more serious was   happening, like a revolution for example."
2023	anger	"I don't use to lie to my parets about what I do, and the two   times that I felt anger were they doubted me I said that I   was going to the club, and they didn't believe me because the day   before they had met me at FLIPERAMA. I had the wish to kill them."
2024	disgust	"I felt disgust about all my friends. After having done a great   effort to organize an evening together, and didn't work out, they   put the blame on me. After this, I feel disgust towards those that   blame me."
2025	shame	I feel ashamed every time that someone makes me a positive or   negative critic.
2026	neutral	I discovered that I and my friend would be licensed at the   first call. This emotion was accompanied by a great relief. It   was the coronation of a year of sacrifice and extrene discipline.
2027	fear	"The week before I entered to army, we were being selected.   During 5 days I had to pass 10 hours a day waiting for the   answer, which at last was the worst. The fear of being convoked,   of hearing the fated phrase, was constant."
2028	anger	"I was misleaded by a person who assured that something would   not occur, that I had no reason to prepccupy myself, and suddenly   I saw myself implicated by the fact, because of the incompetence,   and irresponsibility of that person."
2029	disgust	I had to plunge in a swamp of fetid and stagnant water.
2030	shame	"I accused unjustly a person of robbery, who proved me the   contrary, almost caused a public fight."
2031	guilt	"in the initial interview for the recruiting, I don't know why,   I accepted to do the test for army."
2032	fear	"One day, I realized that I was alone, I felt fear of   loneliness."
2033	disgust	"I felt disgust I realized that I had eaten something fatty,   and vomited too much."
2034	shame	"I realized that my bathing suit was spotted, I had became   menstruated."
2035	guilt	I robbed a loop in supermarket.
2036	fear	I saw a horror film.
2037	anger	my sister took something that belonged to me without my   permission.
2038	sadness	I felt alone and without love.
2039	disgust	I visited a creche. The conditions weren't too precarious   but the children were in conditions of physical and emotional   penury.
2040	shame	I fell down.
2041	guilt	I lost a conference because I hadn't got in touch with a certain   person to inform her that I would go with her. I thought she knew   what I wanted.
2042	fear	I had an important amount of money with me and felt fear of being   assaulted.
2043	anger	I realized that the person I was courting hadn't been really   by my side for a long time already. He had deceived me and I let   him deceive me.
2044	sadness	I noticed that I do many things to the pregiudice of myself.
2045	disgust	Seeing persons spending money in a shopping center with   completely indifference to the misery reigning in our country.
2046	shame	"I felt ashamed to be Brazilian and to live under a military   dictatorship that despoiled the people, during my military   service."
2047	guilt	Facing the possibility of having a child it wasn't either   desired or permitted.
2048	neutral	I felt neutral I passed the worst phase in my life and   discovered how many people considered me important to them.
2049	fear	I felt fear some months ago of losing the person whom I loved   she said to me that she didn't love me.
2050	sadness	my dog died.
2051	guilt	I felt guilt I betrayed the person whom I loved.
2052	neutral	I didn't like my former fob and felt neutral I received a   telegram offering me a new one that I though better and for which   I had been waiting.
2053	fear	"I was in a train where a fight occurred. One person who was there   opened his handbag and took out a gun, another who fought too   looked among his things for a weapon to fight."
2054	anger	Without the employer's knowledge and even without any   communication their bank accounts were changed and their personal   accounts closed.
2055	disgust	I felt disgust I saw a dead animal on the roadway.
2056	shame	I was in a bus with my school material I fell and sat on the   lap of another passenger.
2057	guilt	"I forgot to take out money for my mother. She asked me what   she would do, because I had messed up her program for the   following day."
2058	disgust	"I saw the film ""Memorie of Prison"" I saw a scene of   masturbation of a man in the hold of a ship apart form fact that   the film wasn't pleasant I had a leg of coconut candies in my   hands."
2059	neutral	people remember us and shows interest about what we do.
2060	fear	I had to talk with an important person about a job.
2061	sadness	"I felt sadness I notice that I'm not important for a   determinate person. We do many things for a friend, and we see   soon after, that he doesn't do anything for us, nor thinks of us."
2062	disgust	I needed another job and tought that a good and known person   (my employer) could help me. He simply said that he couldn't help   me.
2063	shame	I arrived late at the job and met the most troublesome boss.
2064	guilt	One of my pupils escaped from school to the street.
2065	neutral	"I felt glad to live again I went to a meeting about the   ""Knowledge"". There are 4 techniques of meditation that connect   you with the essence of the human being."
2066	guilt	I always feel guilty I see my mother sad or fed up with   life. I really dont know the reason.
2067	neutral	I bought my car.
2068	fear	"I was alone at home, a man forced the front door which was   locked, forced and tried to open a window."
2069	anger	I had a serious argument with a dear person.
2070	sadness	"One night a very dear person said: ""I hate you"". Of course it was   an impulse and this person didn't feel that about me. The person   expressed regret, and everything was settled, but I can't forget."
2071	shame	I was still a child I was told off in face of other persons   for having touched an object that didn't belong to me.
2072	guilt	I fought with my sister and said that she had provoked this.   She was very seriously scolded.
2073	neutral	The birth of my daughter.
2074	fear	I should have given a test lesson to get a job. I had no courage.   I didn't make the test.
2075	anger	Discussion with my mother about the way to educate my children. I   felt anger against my mother.
2076	disgust	"I was returning from the Universtity at night I was accosted   by a boy who molested me, passing his hands on my body."
2077	shame	a friend of mine visited me and my house was in a mess.
2078	guilt	"My daughter was a baby and was crying to be taken on my lap. I   felt very nervous and moved her away and went out. As soon as the   feeling of nervousness passed I was taken by an enormous feeling   of guilt, for having rejected my daughter."
2079	neutral	"I found a human ""treasure"" that I desired and got immediately. I   didn't think about anything. I touched him I imploded but I   am whole."
2080	fear	"I was in the dark room, it's insecure and has holes covered with   wooden sheets in the roof the establishment had already been   assaulted and could be assaulted again."
2081	anger	"And she said absurd things, false things that filled my ears and   inflated my head which seemed to be caught in a carcass where the   heart wanted to explode and where the arm wanted to knock down   the world."
2082	sadness	One day I heard from a friend that the boy I loved had gone out   with her and not with me.
2083	disgust	I saw a magazine with photographs of dead and maimed people whose   limbs were separated from their body like a head on one side and   the leg on the other.
2084	neutral	One of the greatest joiy was I succeded in acquiring a   motorcycle through my own efforts.
2085	fear	"I'm afraid of driving on the special seat of a mororcycle, mainly   with certain colleagues who by exces of self-confidence drive   beyond limits or measure in the traffic and the main victim is   always the person who sits behind the driver."
2086	anger	"I felt much anger my fahter interferred in my relations with   another person whom I liked very much, ending something that I   adored."
2087	sadness	"One of the greatest sadness was my grandfather died, because   I loved him very much."
2088	disgust	My main disgust is against codfish because I detest even the   smell of it.
2089	shame	Sincerely I'm a very timid guy and so even in very simple   situations sometimes I am ashamed.
2090	neutral	"I got a stereo walkman from my father he had finacial   difficulties. I thought that although he promised to give me that   present, he was not obliged to do so."
2091	fear	That someone would discover whom I really love.
2092	anger	a colleague was rude with me because she didn't understand   the subject about which I was discussing.
2093	sadness	For not having succeded in getting the job as a translator that I   wanted.
2094	disgust	I saw a man who hadn't the lower .... in a car   exhibition. He was passing a handkerchief from inside to outside   of his mouth.
2095	guilt	"The same event described under ""shame""."
2096	anger	I felt anger against a person who told bad things about me in my   absence.
2097	sadness	"After a disagreement between my parents, I was alone with my   father and my sister, the aggression continued, my father   tried to put me and my sister against my mother revealing facts   that had happened in the past like a talk between my father and   his mother in law where she told him that my mother was not quite   save."
2098	disgust	in my childhood we were forced to take cod-liver oil.
2099	shame	I feel ashamed I am praised.
2100	guilt	"I provoked a fight with my mother, hurting her feelings very   much."
2101	fear	"I was with a friend in a stationed car when, suddenly a man   appeared on my side and an other with a gun on his side the   hold-up lasted a few minutes but it was terrible. I had never   seen a gun so close."
2102	sadness	I was watching television. It was about midnight a very dear   friend called saying that his father had died in an accident.
2103	shame	"I was talking with an aunt of mine that I adore and I found   courage to say ""I love you"" and just after that came the shame."
2104	guilt	This feeling comes frequently I go out at night and tell my   mother that I shall come back early. But then I get home a 5 or 6 a.m.
2105	neutral	Always I meet the person I love.
2106	fear	I and the person mentioned above had a suspicion of   pregnancy.
2107	sadness	I thought for an instant that a very good relationship with   a person had finished.
2108	disgust	I heard the bad news about the death of a close person.
2109	shame	I tried to hide a fact from a person for irrelevant reasons   and considered such an attitude childish.
2110	guilt	It happens sometimes in connection with certain persons with whom   I have frequent relationships but nothing special.
2111	fear	Practicing wind-surf my body was caught under the sail. On trying   to get out my leg was caught in the lashing. I was afraid of   dying by asphixia.
2112	sadness	"In a social situation I became interested in a woman. We talked,   we laughed, we enneutraled each other. She desappeared for a few   minutes, and a little after appeared with an other man."
2113	disgust	"I saw a man falling on the walkway. He seemed half dead, and was   immobile. I felt disgust for the people who passed by without   doing anything to help."
2114	shame	"In the traffic I insulted a man who crossed my way. Afterwards I   paired with him, and felt shame because of mine lack of pacience   and ridiculous attitude."
2115	guilt	A great friend of mine travelled with the intention to change his   life. He didn't succeed and returned depressed. I had not power   to support his frustration and his behavioral change.
2116	neutral	A friend of mine travelled very far. I miss her but feel neutral too   because fer life is taking the right direction as she wants. So I   feel neutral for her mainly.
2117	fear	"Motorcyclistic accident where for some minutes I didn't know if I   was alive or dead, I remained ""cold levered"" during the situation   but felt great fear."
2118	guilt	I acted in a negative way at a certain moment by laziness   to concede a moment of the time I thought to be my own.
2119	neutral	I met my mother after months of absence.
2120	fear	I whatched a horror film on a Friday 13th.
2121	anger	Discussing with a certain person about a job I was getting and   that perosn was negative and pessimistic.
2122	sadness	I felt lack of aid from close friends.
2123	disgust	I saw a fight I had a physical reaction of disgust and of   deep perturbation.
2124	shame	"Walking on the street passing by an air duct, my skirt went up."
2125	guilt	Being disloyal with persons I loved.
2126	neutral	I got a present from a great friend (a dog).
2127	fear	"There was a scene of shooting in front of my house, I was very   afraid. Two armed men confronting. I didn't discover the reason   of the incident."
2128	anger	I was waiting to receive the participation on the profits and did   not receive it.
2129	sadness	I didn't get the job I wanted.
2130	disgust	I went to eat at my aunt's house and she served macaroni with a   horrible appearence. I felt the sensation above. The worst was   that I was practically obliged to eat.
2131	shame	I saw my father coming out of the bathroom. He thought that   he was alone at home and came out without his clothes.
2132	guilt	I misled a person: I said that I would do her a   favour and didn't.
2133	neutral	I can see my parents because now I am far from them.
2134	anger	"Once, during a performance I did not sing the way I had to."
2135	sadness	I got separated from the woman I loved.
2136	disgust	the Americans set their nucleaar missiles in Europe.
2137	shame	"I don't say the truth, I don't do a certain thing   thanks to my laziness."
2138	guilt	Once I promised to do something but I didn't do it.
2139	neutral	I was admitted to the Bulgarian State Conservatoire.
2140	fear	I am afraid if I'll finish the term.
2141	anger	I was angry my abilities of a singer were underestimated.
2142	sadness	I feel sadness from the fact that I was not born with a better   appearance.
2143	disgust	I was disgusted with the hypocrisy of my colleagues from the   group.
2144	shame	Shame I feel I am not properly dressed.
2145	guilt	A sense of guilt I felt once I couldn't defend the   confidence my teacher had in me and thus discrediting him at a   concert.
2146	neutral	I have a new born child.
2147	fear	I could have been killed by a falling object.
2148	anger	At a certain situation I felt myself neglected and undeservedly   harmed.
2149	sadness	The sudden death of one of my parents.
2150	sadness	Getting separated from my family for a week caused me a sense of   sadness.
2151	disgust	"I felt it I saw a colleague of mine eating like a beast. At   the same time he was making gestures, speaking and making the   hell of a noise."
2152	shame	I felt a sense of shame I compromised a colleague of mine. I   got an information from him which I quite out of place shared   with another colleague of mine and it resulted in an unpleasant   consequence for him.
2153	guilt	I promised to fulfill an errand. Later I understood it was   impracticable. The explanation I gave was accompanied by a sense   of guilt.
2154	neutral	"I felt neutral most strongly some years ago, I took part in a   NH Competition and I was the first."
2155	fear	I feel fear I only imagine I could lose confidence in my own   abilities and powers. A similar feeling I feel sometimes before   an exam.
2156	anger	"I feel anger I see a ""parent"" beating and punishing his child   in the street. Recently I was a withness of a similar case."
2157	sadness	I feel sadness I only imagine that I could lose a close   person. Some time ago I lost a man whom aI greatly respected.
2158	disgust	"A similar feeling I felt quite recently while travelling in a   taxi. The driver treated me roughly and dishonestly - he chose   the longest route, he overdrawed almost one lev more and he tried   to be intimate with me."
2159	shame	"Some days ago I fell down at a public place, I came into notice   but thank God I was not mocked at. Though it hurt badly, at the   first moment I felt shame, not ache."
2160	guilt	"I felt guilty because of the pain I caused to a very close   friend. But over the feeling of guilt, my conviction of being   right dominated."
2161	neutral	"my nephew was born. The birth was hard, it was a big baby."
2162	fear	Late one night I was pursued by gipsies who had no good   intentions.
2163	disgust	I found a big black beetle in my coffee cup. It was alive big and   it was moving its limbs.
2164	shame	I had to prepare and read a paper to my fellow students but   I didn't cope with the task.
2165	guilt	I had thrown with the ashtray a still lighted cigarette in the   plastic wastepaper basket. It had burnt out and my landlords made   me a row that I might had set their flat on fire.
2166	neutral	Some time ago I was present at the wedding party of two close   friends of mine.
2167	fear	I was crossing the street together with some colleagues of mine   I suddenly found myself almost under the wheels of a truck.
2168	anger	Someone stole my ski at Vitosha and of course I was the one to be   blamed. I left them without supervision.
2169	sadness	I got separated form my closest friend. He went to work abroad.
2170	disgust	A drunk man had fallen in the street and he was shouting obscene   words.
2171	shame	I had borrowed some money and I exceeded the time-limit.
2172	guilt	I couldn't fulfill a promise.
2173	neutral	"An encounter with a man whom I love, after a very long   separation."
2174	fear	"I woke up in the middle of the night of a nightmare, I was alone,   it was very quiet and very dark."
2175	anger	A shop-assistant behaved rather roughly with me though she hadn't   the slightest grounds for it.
2176	sadness	I saw a friend of mine who had suffered a very heavy contusion   after an accident.
2177	disgust	I caught a glimpse of a black-beetle.
2178	shame	I was made a very sharp remark at a rehearsal.
2179	neutral	"At a success of mine, at a real achievement."
2180	disgust	"I was looking after a dying patient at work one night, a young   woman, my colleague was talking to her relatives and .... to   offer them any support emotionally, physically and then sent them   down to the coffee shop to have a dinner rather than offering the   facilities available for their use cause it involved her having   to do some work. Seeing them again I felt disgusted at her   attitude."
2181	shame	"I put on a lot of weight in a few months and every time I met   someone I knew would avoid them, usually by hiding because my   self image was low and I was ashamed of what I had done to   myself."
2182	guilt	"I was involved in a ... attempt on a man I had developed a close   warming relationship with. Although I knew I had done everything   I could and that his progress of a ""normal"" life was poor I felt   guilty as if I could have done more."
2183	neutral	For the first time in my life telling someone I loved them.
2184	fear	"I was ringing up a guy who was my teen idol, and was in   Auckland. I was really scared, I didn't know what to say or do."
2185	anger	"my mother decided to clean out my room and throw out what   she thought was junk, without my knowing about it, so I returned   home to find half my stuff gone."
2186	sadness	I couldn't find my dog which was missing.
2187	disgust	I was disgusted with a friend's behaviour she got absolutely   drunk so that she vomitted all over my house.
2188	guilt	"I felt guilty after getting really angry with a friend and having   an argument. I was being stubborn and proud, and selfish, because   my friend let me down, through no fault of her own."
2189	shame	"I had called a boy who had dated me, and told him that I was ill,   while, actually, I didn't want to go out with him, later on, he asked   me if I was feeling better, then I felt ashamed."
2190	guilt	I hurt my parents in one way or another.
2191	neutral	I passed the driving test after three failures.
2192	fear	I nearly caused a traffic accident with my car.
2193	anger	"playing a football match, there was one player who made mean   tackels, kicked at everything and did things having nothing to do   with football."
2194	sadness	A close friend decided to stop with his study and to go back   home.
2195	shame	"During a family reunion, they started talking about me wearing an   ear-ring."
2196	neutral	For instance a girl is interested in me and likes me.
2197	fear	"Walking at friday night through Nijmegen, going to a pub or a   disco."
2198	disgust	I felt dusgust with a self-iterested person who ruined the life   of another by means of utterly unfair methods.
2199	shame	I didn't do an important job and it had an adverse effect on   other people.
2200	guilt	I stroke a person undeservedly.
2201	neutral	I sensed this feeling I passed successfully the second tour   of a competition.
2202	fear	I felt fear my mother was heavily ill.
2203	anger	I felt anger against a colleague of mine during a rehearsal in   acting. He hadn't learnt the text of an opera act in the course of   several months and thus making difficulties for the rest of my   colleagues.
2204	sadness	I felt sadness I had to get separated from the woman I loved   who had to leave for her motherland.
2205	disgust	"I felt disgust with the alcohol, after I happened to see a young   man, who was dead to the world and who wallowed on the pavement.   This ""sight"" I watched from the bus."
2206	shame	"I felt shame and I couldn't look into my teacher's eyes, after   not attending his lectures."
2207	neutral	"I was happy at difficult times I could find support in my   friend and my fiancT, I was happy because of their spiritual and   moral help which gave me new power to struggle. I was happy then,   I felt it in my soul."
2208	fear	I felt it at the same time I felt disgust.
2209	anger	I felt it on the same occasion I felt sadness which finally   grew into anger.
2210	sadness	My living and working conditions at home were unbearable. We used   to live in a three room flat together with two more families. The   discords caused a change - one of the families moved out. The   other family stayed with us but I drifted away from my fiancT. In   fact we were two families in the flat. Then I found myself alone   in the struggle for this life because my fiancT did not stay next   to me my grief and sorrow took on large proportions. I wanted to   commit suicide but instead I threw myself against the cause of   the irritation.
2211	disgust	"I am disgusted with my sister's husband. On an early Sunday   morning after having knocked at my door, he suddenly rushed in   and finching me still in bed he began quarrelling about   something. I could not understand. I heard his last words: ""Don't   stare at me so because I'll beat you in your bed"" I got up   terrified and a thrashing followed."
2212	shame	I feel shame mixed with anger with the behavior of some   incultivated people because my fiancT is a foreigner.
2213	guilt	I felt guilt because on account of my ambitions I nearly turned   my sister out of my parents home.
2214	neutral	That was what I felt I was finally accepted in the Bulgarian   Conservatorie after I had applied a couple of years.
2215	fear	I experienced this feeling the doctors found a nodule in one   of my mother's breasts. It turned out to be an occlusion   resulting from continious sucking but for a few days I was not in my   reason.
2216	anger	I had an accident with a trafic police car that was packed at a   curve without any visibility and against all traffic regulations   in a strong snowstorm. As a result I still cannot repair my car   because of the missing spare parts.
2217	sadness	"A sudden doubt made me run for a long time in a rainy autumn   night. I reached the intended place I saw my beloved in   another man's arms. A sudden blow, grief, I cannot qualify it, it   is painful for me to remember about it."
2218	disgust	"I felt disgust with a man I had trusted and respected, to whose   problems I had always shown deep understanding."
2219	shame	I was given the task to learn a page of music text for a small   part. But I had forgotten all about it and I felt quite awkward   I had to show what I had prepared.
2220	guilt	Some time ago I slapped my son without trying to understand who   the real culprit of a damage was. After that I felt guilty and   bad but it was too late.
2221	fear	I was to be given an audition to get a role. I had a competitress   and I wasn't well prepared because I was ill.
2222	disgust	I am disgusted with the fact that bad singers play at the opera   (and not only there) only because they are protegTs or lovers of   an important felow while at the same time some young and able   singers work in a quite different field of life.
2223	shame	I feel shy to show all my worth I work for the first time   with a conductor or a producer unfamiliar to me.
2224	guilt	I offended my mother.
2225	fear	Once I was alone at home. I suddenly felt unwell and there was no   one to help me and call First Aid.
2226	neutral	I was admitted to a Language school. On the day I was   informed by a message and my parents congratulated me.
2227	fear	diving deep into the sea to reach the floor I felt   breathless. I was cautious but I doubted I should be able to come   to the surface and inhale.
2228	anger	my friend (girl) promised to help me go to the hospital and be   examined by good experts and she deceived me.
2229	sadness	I had stayed abroad for a long time and I had remembered   about my friends and relatives. I felt sad and I wanted to see   them as soon as possible.
2230	disgust	I felt it I saw our headmaster blushed ingratiating himself   with high ranking officials.
2231	shame	"I hadn't learnt my lesson and I asked the teacher to give me   ""a three"" and he agreed but even he felt quite awkward. NB: In Bulgarian schools ""a three"" is the second worst mark."
2232	guilt	I shouted and quarrelled and for no reason I had been rude to my   mother and my behaviour had been influenced by other outward   factors.
2233	neutral	"you are satisfied with something, you achieve something   you have striven to."
2234	anger	you are unjustly assessed at something you are sure to have   been right.
2235	sadness	"For the loss of a close friend or relative, but you feel grief   you are away from home, too."
2236	anger	They wanted something to happen but I didn't.
2237	sadness	I couldn't be with a girl on whom I was very keen.
2238	disgust	"I and my friends got acquainted with a guy from Sofia who turned   out to be gay, but we found that out only after 2 or 3 days."
2239	guilt	Years ago I ran away from home which disappointed my parents.
2240	neutral	Having passed an exam.
2241	fear	Having a car accident.
2242	anger	I shared a secret with a friend and it later turned out that he   had revealed it to another person with whom I didn't get along very well.
2243	sadness	The loss of a very good friend.
2244	disgust	Negative statement concerning me of a friend before strangers.
2245	neutral	I'm glad I have good relations with my colleagues and most   of all we are at a party.
2246	fear	I experienced it once we were on a drive. Our car passed by   the one comming from the opposite direction at an incredibly   small distance.
2247	anger	"I get angry with people who attain certain status without   deserving it, only with the support, authority and influence of   other people."
2248	sadness	I feel sad I see things done against men and nothing could   stop it - at least I think so.
2249	disgust	I have experienced disgust with some people - usually double   dealers.
2250	shame	I am ashamed I am not prepared in a subject and I have to   answer in the presence of the patients.
2251	guilt	I feel guilty I should have done something at any rate but I   haven't done it.
2252	neutral	I experienced it I was accepted at the Medical Higher   Institute.
2253	fear	I felt it I sat for my exam in anatomy.
2254	anger	I experience that feeling I am unsulted without deserving   it or someone deceives me.
2255	sadness	my grandfather died.
2256	disgust	"I feel disgusted with toadies, hypocrites, chameleons."
2257	shame	I do something unworthy.
2258	guilt	I offended my parents without wanting it.
2259	neutral	After each successfully passed exam I am happy.
2260	fear	A friend of mine gave birth to a child. Very dangerous delivery.   I was afraid for her and for the baby.
2261	anger	"I get angry someone imputes on me things I never can do,   naturally negative. Servility, ""connections"", impudence, traits   that get me mad."
2262	disgust	"I am disgusted with liers, hypocrites, slanderers, flunkeys."
2263	shame	Recently I saw a young girl fawning on a man. And what for -   money and things. I was ashamed to be a woman.
2264	guilt	I have been overhastingly offending or hurting.
2265	fear	Few years ago my father was very ill. He stayed at a hospital for   a long time. Then I experienced that terrible feeling that I   might lose him.
2266	anger	I have a friend that I deeply trusted but it happened that I lost   my confidence in her for which she herself was to blame.
2267	sadness	"We are several friends but our characters are very different and   we inevitably split in the two extremes. It is sad that I myself   don't know what to do, I try not to hurt either of the ""parties""   because there are conflicts to which one I should belong."
2268	disgust	"I stayed for several weeks with a friend of mine before she moved   to live with her husband. One evening he came drunk and made an   awful scene, which I still remember."
2269	shame	"In the past I experienced this feeling almost all the time -   wherever I went, in different sutuations. I was small and I had   to be taken to kindergarten, but me the fool didn't dare to tell   exactly where, finally as a result I was late."
2270	guilt	"My roommate got married and invited me to share a flat with them.   But with a young couple there should not be a third person. I am   to blame for not following the advise of the others, but it is   not late still."
2271	neutral	"I experienced this feeling I was accepted as a student.   Because everything turned out different from my expectations.   Although I passed the exam successfully I was accepted as a   student only I didn't expect it at all, namely at the   beginning of September."
2272	fear	In the real sense of the word I experienced fear in my first   months in the army. During my first night of duty. The cause for   all this was a bear. I became panic sticken (may be for the first   time) and even forgot that I had a gun.
2273	anger	I was a soldier I quarrelled with my commander and may be in   revenge for this he detailed me on duty two successive nights.   Naturally he checked me up on the second night and found me   asleep for which he sent me to the cells.
2274	disgust	"Sort of awkward. I'd introduced (a lover) but introduced as a   friend to some members of my family, and my niece Yavanna who's   six was home from school and at Mum's and Dad's and was really   silly and at first it was ok, but it went on and on - yukky pooh!   You eat your snot, etc. and I felt cross she wouldn't stop. But   she had an audience and was in one of those moods. Once I'd   accepted it was something everyone does at time I felt better -   it was partly having my friend there."
2275	guilt	I used to pinch change from my father's mantlepiece (never my   mother - she didn't get enough housekeeping) and then I'd feel   we went to church as a family I'd felt awkward cos I felt   I'm expected to go to communion and I would but I was afraid and   guilty 'cos I committed a mortal sin.
2276	neutral	Spontaneous picnic with sister and friend and children - great.
2277	fear	Can think of no time that I have felt fear.
2278	anger	"Teenage neighbours smashed my letterbox for the fifth time in a   couple of months. It was a deliberate action of kids who had   stayed in my home, had meals there yet took a dislike to my   daughter. "
2279	sadness	Guy I cared for went back to Canada to live.
2280	disgust	Bus driver driving roughly - old man fell off seat into aisle -   driver wouldn't stop - disgusted with her behaviour.
2281	shame	"A daughter in court for staff pilfering, she was dressed like a   ""street walker"" - I had a friend form overseas with me and was   falsely trying to impress with my family."
2282	guilt	Reported neighbour to police for taking to my daughter with   baseball ball - her counsellor rang me and after long talk   convinced me the woman was o.k. I felt guilty for ringing the   police then guilty for feeling guilty about it.
2283	neutral	Meeting with two of my friends I had not seen for 15 years. They   were special people to me.
2284	fear	"I was in the Korean War. We were attacked with mortars, me and   companion. We stopped the jeep and ran for cover. Fortunately   neither of us was hit but we both came close to being killed."
2285	anger	"I've a situation of responsibility an employee who had a habit of   being late, came late again after promising to say he would be at   work in a few minutes, then arrived 3 hours later. He had been   drinking."
2286	disgust	Disgust at myself I stroked a sleeping girl's private parts.
2287	shame	My son was apprehended for shoplifting at the age of 14. Because   I too had been apprehended at the same age I felt the shame of   not having been able to prevent my son from acting in the same   way.
2288	guilt	I removed an article of clothing belonging to my employer while   in a position of trust.
2289	neutral	we took out an 84 year old woman for the evening and had   hamburgers. She described the evening out as her happiest night   out in 20 years.
2290	fear	"While tramping on a narrow path two of us were confronted by a   woman with two snarling dogs, demanding we get off the property -   via a flooded river !"
2291	anger	"A friend got angry and drove ""like a lunatic"" with me and others   in his car. I was angry about his dangerous driving."
2292	sadness	A boy I look after for the probation service deliberately   offended to provoke a reaction from the police.
2293	disgust	"4-letter words on a TV programme (Roche) while we were   entertaining ""conservative"" relations who wanted to see the first   episode."
2294	shame	A young visitor to the house stole money from an elderly   visitor's purse. It wasn't noticed for some hours.
2295	guilt	I had to leave an important function early because of family   commitments. Someone else had to complete my job.
2296	neutral	I was seriously injured in a road accident. The very first steps   I took with only one crutch to support me I felt so good. I enneutral   being alive.
2297	fear	"I was attacked, standing in a doorway, by a pack of 5 dogs,   alsatians and farm dogs with my escape route blocked by a shut   fence."
2298	anger	"In the house where I live there is a new flatmate. His friends   unfortunately are the dirt of society, intelligent, fashonable,   rich and bored. At a party recently they were doing things I   didn't like done in my house. I felt angry at them."
2299	guilt	"I was young I stole something from a shop and got caught,   then I was taken to the police station and my parents had to come   and get me."
2300	neutral	"I found out that a set task (i.e. 2 essays and a test), the   thought of which had oppressed me, were not on the date I had   thought."
2301	fear	confronted and in my opinion hassled by the police.
2302	disgust	"Disgust - no. Maybe it is more precise to say revultion at a worm   or a snake. But I mean it in a social aspect somebody had   behaved like a scoundrel to you, by his actions he has made   you change your attitude towards him but I thing this feeling the   way I meant it, is not typical for the people interrelations."
2303	guilt	"I have forgotten to warn somebody for something, or I   have forgotten to bring something I have been asked for."
2304	fear	"When, for example, my grandfather fell seriously ill. It was   necessary for him to be operated and I felt great fear of losing   him because he is so dear to me."
2305	sadness	"When, for example, I left for the first time my parents and I   went to live in Sofia."
2306	disgust	"When, for example, someone is calumnating."
2307	shame	"When, for example, I fail in my undertakings."
2308	guilt	"For example, I have promised something but I haven't   fulfilled it."
2309	neutral	Some time ago a close relative of mine got off cheap with the   worst.
2310	fear	The last time I felt it was I was coming home late at night.
2311	anger	I haven't often felt this feeling. Once someone stole my garment.
2312	sadness	Recently I happened to remain alone for a long time.
2313	disgust	I don't remember about a situation I have experienced this   feeling. Maybe it was I saw a drunkard in the street.
2314	shame	I lied to my best friend and I wouldn't reform what I had done.
2315	guilt	It happens to me quite often. I can't describe a particular case.
2316	neutral	"Realizing one's desire, an experienced feeling of satisfaction   from the realization of one's desires and aims."
2317	fear	"Fear of the loss of a close friend, of feeling the ground slipping   from under my feet."
2318	anger	"Attitude to some manners of dealing and some ""sanctioned""   relations."
2319	sadness	Feeling unable to preserve one's ideas and ambitions as innocent   as they are you are young.
2320	disgust	Attitude to a related family.
2321	shame	"Exaggerating certain circumstances, wrong attitude and evaluation   of these circumstances."
2322	guilt	Low evaluation of other people's cares.
2323	fear	If a close relative's life is in danger.
2324	anger	A close person lied to me.
2325	disgust	Encouter with a prostitute.
2326	shame	A theft committed by me.
2327	guilt	Lack of respect for my parents.
2328	neutral	my son was born.
2329	anger	Unjust punishment of a friend of mine.
2330	sadness	After the loss of a close relative.
2331	disgust	somebody behaves like a scoundrel. Recently a colleague of   mine used the name of another one for his own benefit.
2332	shame	I travelled on a bus and I forgot to punch the ticket. A ticket   collector came in and I had to pay the fine. I did it with a feeling   of shame.
2333	guilt	I forgot to convey an important announcement.
2334	neutral	Meeting a loved man.
2335	fear	"I felt a physical fear, if I can call it this way, today, in the bus where   I was sitting on the first seat. While turning the driver didn't   see the tram which was making a dash towards us (coming from the   side I was), and whose driver intended to cross in yellow   light."
2336	anger	"At an unjust, or to be more precise, at a bureaucratic treatment   of one's personality."
2337	sadness	one is alone and knows that all the others are celebrating.
2338	disgust	"At the sight of an insect, such as the black-beetle."
2339	shame	not fulfilling any of my obligations to a person whom I   respect.
2340	guilt	something unpleasant happens to a friend or relative of   yours and you are at the bottom of it.
2341	fear	This feeling I sensed quite recently. It was arisen by the   terrific thought that I might lose the man I loved !
2342	sadness	"Sometimes, I'm alone I am seized by this feeling. But it   always helps me to come round and at the same time to judge if it   is worth. Very often this feeling is caused to me by people -   friends who I love and respect."
2343	disgust	Such a feeling springs up in me sometimes I have meals at a   catering establishment. It is a result either of the look of the   food or watching the way some people eat.
2344	shame	This happens to me I am not prepared in a given subject.
2345	fear	"I had to have my tonsils out. I had been making up my mind almost   for a year - I was afraid. But during the two hours in the   hospital room, while I was waiting to be called for the operation I   felt a real fear - of the pain, of what they were going to do to   me, of the unknown."
2346	sadness	"Summer, heavy rain, storm - I was standing with my face stick to   the window: the childhood, something was going away forever this   summer, I was leaving my home, I was going to study in another   town, for the first time I was leaving my parents, friends, I had   to manage myself, a long and loved period of my life was over - I   was crying."
2347	disgust	I saw in the street a man spitting.
2348	shame	"I talked with a man who stammered and without controlling myself,   I started to talk imitating him."
2349	guilt	"Always, and this happens often I do not keep my word."
2350	fear	I felt this feeling one day my landlord's cat had crept   under my bed and I couldn't cope with it during an hour and a   half.
2351	anger	I feel this feeling I am to fill in a questionnaire or a   form.
2352	sadness	the man I loved decided to leave me forever.
2353	disgust	"I have felt this feeling a person whom I believe and respect,   lied to me."
2354	shame	"I feel shame sometimes, (unconsciously) I behave unethically   and without understanding the problems of the man I love."
2355	guilt	I offend somebody unfairly.
2356	neutral	A quarrel was followed by the decision of leaving a person close   to me. Several days later my regret was great. I was beside   myself. Quite unexpectedly he came and the conflict was calmly   solved. I was glad at the possibility to be with him.
2357	fear	"One evening I was watching the news on TV. Again they were   talking about the danger of war. Suddenly I imagined what it   might mean for me, for my friends, for the people close to me. I   felt it a very near and possible event."
2358	anger	"Unfair and unjust attitude toward a person close to me, what I   was the witness of, caused anger in me."
2359	sadness	"The thought that I'll never sit at the school desk again, caused   a deep grief at the end of my eleventh form."
2360	disgust	I felt disgust with a person whose behaviour was out of the   elementary human norms.
2361	shame	I had not punched a ticket in the bus because I had a card. But   the ticket-collector came it turned out that I had forgotten   it. The shame I felt was great though it was not done on purpose.
2362	guilt	At a moment of affect I offended a person very close to me. He   had given me ground for that but it was a trifling in comparison   with the way I insulted him. A moment later I felt a sense of   guilt.
2363	fear	"I broke my knee I was skiing over ""Yastrebetz"" (a racing   track in a Bulgarian winter resort)."
2364	sadness	"My son lives with my parents in the country and I feel this   feeling always leaving for Sofia, but the last time it was   quite strong."
2365	disgust	A colleague of mine asked a lecturer to put him a higher mark in   order to keep his good mards and thus to continue getting a   scholarship for an excellent grade.
2366	shame	I felt this feeling during the exam in higher mathematics.
2367	guilt	My son drank four pills of diazepam every two hours instead of   amidophen.
2368	fear	"I felt fear once, the car in which I travelled directed   towards the precipice along the road."
2369	anger	I see how people around me pass by certain unjustice because   of indifference or cowardice.
2370	sadness	I left a man in whom I really believed.
2371	disgust	Disgust with drunk people.
2372	shame	I try to lie.
2373	guilt	I had had the possibility to act or to do certain activity   better but I had not done it because of reluctance or   carelessness.
2374	fear	I broke my leg I felt fear.
2375	anger	someone lies to me.
2376	sadness	At an unjust insult or injure.
2377	disgust	From the cigarette smoke. Usually I feel disgust from it I   am in a restaurant.
2378	shame	I promise to do something but I don't fulfill it.
2379	guilt	I don't fulfill my obligations.
2380	neutral	my affairs with the girl I love settled positively.
2381	fear	"In a dam lake, the water was let flow to water the plants   and I and two other boys were near the water pit. We rescued   ourselves only thanks to the flippers and the tyre that was with   us."
2382	anger	"It was quite recently, at the football match between the national   teams of Bulgaria and France. I felt strong anger with the Scottish   referee who ran the match quite partially."
2383	sadness	I am alone and listen to a song which I like very much and   which I had listened before together with friends.
2384	disgust	A striking act of ingratitude at a public vehicle.
2385	shame	"I counterfeited a mark in the school register during the lesson   in gymnastics. I felt this feeling two days later I stood   face to face with my teacher, whom I highly appreciated and   respected."
2386	guilt	In a fit of temper I told things that were unjust and they   greatly hurt my mother though she didn't show it.
2387	neutral	I passed successfully the preliminary exam for a participation in   the children Assembly.
2388	fear	I was alone in my room at the boarding house at 12 o'clock   someone knocked violently on the door.
2389	anger	A friend of mine promised to come with me to the cinema but he   didn't come.
2390	shame	"I had to prepare a report but I couldn't write it. I read from a   book off-hand, I was quite uneasy and I felt I didn't manage."
2391	guilt	My father got a slight heart attack after a telephone call of   mine.
2392	neutral	Bulgaria won a football match against France.
2393	fear	I was going to knock down a pedestrian with my car.
2394	anger	I was neglected undeservedly.
2395	shame	I didn't offer my seat to a pregnant woman in the bus.
2396	guilt	I didn't attend lectures.
2397	neutral	I felt neutral my two twin sisters were born.
2398	fear	"The night before my wife had given birth to our twins. I felt   fear in the hospital yard, I feared if everything was going to be   in order."
2399	anger	"About a month ago the Regional Council refused to pay my wife the   due maternity benefit, because of bureaucratic reasons."
2400	sadness	Some months ago my wife gave birth to twin sisters. She had no   idea of looking after babies and she felt quite oppressed. The   fact that I couldn't help her caused grief to me.
2401	disgust	"I feel disgust with some people I see what they are capable   of, including lack of any dignity, trying to find a seat in   the tram."
2402	shame	Some days ago I had a car accident. It was quite slight but   through my fault. I felt strong shame because I had the spirits   of a good driver.
2403	guilt	Some days ago I had a slight car accident through my fault.
2404	neutral	The period I was pregnant and I gave birth to my son.   I can say those were the happiest months in my life.
2405	fear	A fear from the loss of a close friend as a result of his   behavior.
2406	anger	"I encountered not only with my father's lack of   understanding but also with his unwillingness to understand me as   a parent, as far as things for which I (not he) have proves to be   right are concerned."
2407	sadness	From the fact that my husband and I are not in good terms.
2408	disgust	"I was disgusted from a quarrel between two married people, in   which the children were involved as accusers of one of the   parents."
2409	shame	I don't succeed to fulfill a promise.
2410	guilt	"I am not able to fulfill any request of my son - can't take   him out to ride his byke, because I am tired."
2411	neutral	I felt neutral I saw my daughter after a separation of twenty   days.
2412	anger	I thought him a good friend but he tried to lie to me several times.   Last time was the height of impudence. He promised he would come   home but he didn't. I felt a sense of anger and insult.
2413	fear	A fear of lack of personal powers.
2414	anger	"At an undeserved attitude toward a man, human personality is   not treated decently."
2415	sadness	At an irrevocable loss (with respect to human relations).
2416	disgust	"At an unworthy behaviour of a man, pettiness, stupidity and   mostly at a philistinism."
2417	shame	At a weakness on my part.
2418	guilt	I don't justify the confidence of people that I respect.
2419	fear	Because of a conflict with my parents there was a possibility to   interrupt my studies.
2420	anger	I feel a strong anger I am treated unjustly.
2421	sadness	At a prolonged separation with my family.
2422	disgust	I was looking for an object I came across a rotten corpse of   a rat.
2423	shame	I feel this feeling at one and the same degree I am not   prepared to overcome certain obstacle in my life.
2424	guilt	I offended a person who had done much for me and who had helped   me for everything.
2425	neutral	"The day my son said for the first time ""mummy""."
2426	fear	Before an exam in logics.
2427	anger	My husband and I were invited at the house of our nieghbours then   we got an invitation on the part of my parents which we had to   refuse. A a result they called me by words that provoked my   anger.
2428	sadness	My son lives in the country. I feel sadness I see mothers   having walks with their children.
2429	disgust	"The behaviour of a colleague of mine, which doesn't correspond to   my norms of behaviour."
2430	shame	I was to take part in a cocktail party on the occasion of our   national holiday as a servant.
2431	guilt	I ignored and offended my parents on the eve of the New Year.
2432	neutral	"The sense of neutral comes to me always after a period of depression,   as an organic feeling for an upsurge. I don't exclude the   situative feeling but in this case the reason is not in me, it's   out of me."
2433	fear	I bet that I would jump down from a window. I was sure that I   would jump but before I did it I rather felt fear.
2434	sadness	"Alone I am coming back home in the night after the serial   ""explanation""."
2435	disgust	A lie on the part of a person close to me.
2436	shame	I thought I had taken a decision but I hesitated.
2437	guilt	I feel this feeling most often before me not before the others.   My outside is iron but actually I'm wasting away.
2438	neutral	My son was born.
2439	fear	I had a car accident.
2440	anger	I was drawn up a statement for an infringement of the traffic   ordinance. In fact I was innocent.
2441	sadness	I lost a close friend.
2442	disgust	I saw a film about the nazi concentration camps during the war.   After the film I felt disgust.
2443	shame	"I was nailed. I lied in connection with a book which I took from   the library, because I had to keep it for a longer time."
2444	guilt	I didn't give back in time some money that I had borrowed. My   friend relied on them.
2445	neutral	After 10 days of hard work and having suffered many changes I   passed my last exam.
2446	fear	Before going to the dentist.
2447	anger	I am made to do things in which I see no sense and I waste   my time. Some time ago I had to participate in a sociological   investigation and then I got really angry.
2448	sadness	"I feel I must be with somebody, to talk with somebody - but   I am alone."
2449	disgust	"Some time ago a man tried to teach me something. ""Tried"" because   it is very difficult to teach somebody you yourself are not   competent and cultured."
2450	shame	"I am ashamed I am not ready for my seminar in internal   diseases, simply because the assistant professor is a person who   deserves high respect."
2451	guilt	"We had promised, with a friend of mine, to take our friends to a   restaurant and after having looked for a place for hours without   finding one, and not being helped by the others we had to give up   the idea."
2452	neutral	I am with friends and I do what pleases me this often   happenes.
2453	fear	I have to go in for an exam and the examinor is a person   with a whimsical character and unsteady requirements.
2454	anger	"I unfairly got a low mark on an exam and I failed to win a grant,   since then I don't have much confidence in myself at an exam."
2455	sadness	It happened that I was alone - with no contacts with friends.
2456	disgust	"I met three drunk boys, almost children, they didn't look like   normal people."
2457	shame	I was totally unprepared for a seminar conducted by an assistant   professor whom I highly respect.
2458	guilt	I got back too late after a Sunday going out without having   called up home to tell where I was. my mother hadn't slept the   whole night.
2459	neutral	I was happy I understood that the girl I liked was in love   with me.
2460	fear	I am afraid before an exam or colloquium.
2461	sadness	my dog was stolen.
2462	disgust	"I detest any kind of constraint and hate the attempts of elder   people to force me to a norm of behavior without having legal or   moral rights to do it. I felt this emotion a neighbour of   mine made me kick out my guests because they had talked very   loudly and threatened that with ""connections"" she will expel me   from the inst."
2463	shame	I experienced long ago I was sightseeing Bulgarians in a   foreign language.
2464	guilt	My mother developed hipertonia and I think I too am to blame   bacause with her it is a stress disease.
2465	neutral	I met with friends that I hadn't seen for a long time.
2466	fear	"One evening a friend of mine was telling a fearful story, nobody   took it seriously but I got frightened."
2467	anger	I got angry with a stranger in a train who behaved impertinently   and immorally
2468	sadness	I failed at the first entrance exam.
2469	disgust	The event which got me angry got also an aversion in me.
2470	shame	Once I was not ready for a seminar and I was asked to leave.
2471	guilt	I felt guilty once I made my mother angry.
2472	neutral	Six months ago I got acquaintanced with a person whom I   trusted infinitely and from whom I expected help and friendly   feelings. With him I found much in common - in our views and in   our fate.
2473	fear	Few days ago I really experienced fear. It was connected with   unexpected actions on the part of a group of people. This evoked   in me many negative emotions.
2474	anger	"I always get angry somebody deceives me, or tries to conceal   his lie skilfully and this offends me even more."
2475	sadness	Sadness - this is an emotion which I have felt very often   recently. I can't remember a concrete example. I will describe my   general impression from severl situations which evoked this   feeling in me.
2476	disgust	"I became disgusted with the man on whom I had counted, who I had   trusted, the man who should have been my mainstay - my father.   I could hardly make myself (and the others) believe in this   emotion. It has cumulated after events and deeds. Everything can   happen in this world."
2477	shame	"I am ashamed of the way my father behaves with my mother and   sister, and with me too."
2478	guilt	"I didn't keep a promise I had made to a man, and in this way I   lost his esteem and confidence in me. I caused him a lot of   trouble."
2479	neutral	I was accepted as a student.
2480	fear	I was a bit frightened it was found that there was something   wrong with my liver. However it turned out that it was not   serious and I need not worry.
2481	anger	With the girl whom I may be loved truly. she refused to come   with me to an occasion (she was from another town).
2482	sadness	For the girl who halped me go on living and made me happy -   I don't see her even for two or three days.
2483	disgust	"For a drunk man (about 20 years old) that I met one evening, and   who behaved impudently with the girls standing by."
2484	shame	I was embarassed at the exam in microbiology. I was ashamed with   myself - how little I knew and how good was the examinor. I   rarely become ashamed.
2485	guilt	Recently I made a slip and blurted out indecent words in my   mother's presence.
2486	neutral	"I felt it on duty in the hospital I understood that I was   not afraid to face death, that I also helped a little to relieve   the pains of a patient."
2487	fear	"Fear overwhelmed me right against the car I was in I saw   another one, as if out of control of the driver."
2488	anger	I felt it a girl who was dear to me lied to my face. I got   angry with the fact that she knew I didn't believe her but she   kept on telling lies.
2489	sadness	"Sadness, no, I felt something much stronger my father died."
2490	disgust	I got disgusted with a man who was beating a woman in the street.   I just happened to be there but I was abhorred by the rudness.
2491	shame	"I was ashamed of the way I deceived that I could not help a   friend, although it was absolutely possible for me. Nothing was   revealed but I haven't called up this person since then."
2492	neutral	I knew that my husband and I were going to have a child.
2493	fear	Two years ago I saw a film on the TV. Even now it makes me   afraid.
2494	anger	my husband stays late at a meeting and I have to be alone.
2495	sadness	The loss of a person I loved very much.
2496	disgust	Deception from a person I loved very much.
2497	shame	I didn't tell my parents that I was going to Sofia. I told them   that I was going to a seminar. My mother knew that I was lying but   she didn't stop me.
2498	neutral	I was very happy I got the message that I had been accepted   as a student in medicine.
2499	fear	I felt something close to that I saw that there was a man on   the terrace of the flat.
2500	disgust	I felt it today the bus driver shouted rather indecent words   at a man without any reason whatsoever.
2501	shame	At an exam in pharmacology I tried to prompt a coleague (she   asked me something) and the assistant professor made me a sharp   remark.
2502	neutral	I learned that my parents were going abroad and leaving me   alone for a few years.
2503	disgust	"Some time ago I was disgusted with the ""cleanness"" of the   refectory of our institute."
2504	shame	We were at a football match and we were leaving the stadium   (the stadium was packed with people) and I lost my shoe in the   crowd. Our attempts to find it didn't give any result and I had   to go home without one shoe. In other words to cross the whole   town !
2505	neutral	I was admitted to the Institute. I had problems with many   people about my applying for this institute and I decided to   prove that one can pass excellently without visiting any   preparatory couse. That is - I proved what I could do on my own.
2506	fear	Once as a child I dreamed of a fire. Since that time I hadn't   wanted to sleep in that bed and had feared the night darkness   (and so it is now).
2507	anger	A chief was unjustly punished on an autumn brigade and the one   who was really guilty kept silent. I stepped in front and told   the truth. The guilty chief called me in after the roll-call and   threatened me.
2508	sadness	Years ago I fell in love for the first time. as natural for every   school-girl I was day-dreaming. Later (after 3 years) we left   each other. No one was to blame but I felt deep sadness. Even now   I remember about it quite often.
2509	disgust	"It was at a comsomol(??) meeting, the last one because we were to   graduate. The way one of my fellow-students behaved made me feel   disgusted."
2510	shame	"I was at a children's camp abroad. The people (the leaders, my   coevals) were very king to us. One night we smeared our foreign   friends with tooth-paste while they were sleeping and then we   roused the whole camp by our shouts. Later I was so sorry. I   didn't utter a word for two days, then I went to apologize."
2511	neutral	I learned I was admitted to study what I wanted most -   floriculture (this is a narrow specialization from the general   one).
2512	fear	I was walking on the pavement a white car rolled on it and   directed towards me. I was quite near the house wall it   rolled by and hit me.
2513	disgust	I felt disgusted about a teacher who had rejected all that was   human in her. She refused to accept the flowers we gave her for   the eighth of March and asked for a foreign parfume instead.
2514	shame	I was examined by a teacher I greatly respected. I was well   prepared on the subjects but he put some side-issues to me and I   couldn't answer.
2515	neutral	"I was very glad I learned I was a student already. I heard   about it over the phone, I didn't believe it at first."
2516	fear	I had worries about a certain illness.
2517	anger	"I suffered from a gynaecological illness. I was quite displeased   to hear that my roommates had talked about it and they had   misrepresented the truth. I felt deeply hurt I learned that   it was done by a ""good"" acquaintance of mine."
2518	disgust	I hate hypocrisy. My friend (girl) tried to intrude into my   affairs with my future husband. After that she behaved as if   nothing had happened.
2519	shame	"I feel shame I have made a promise, I can't keep it and this   has negative effects which are caused by my behavior."
2520	anger	"I confronted with this feeling at the Institute quite recently,   the pedology lecturer was the cause."
2521	sadness	This feeling was quite deep my friend (girl) died in a car   accident.
2522	disgust	I am disgusted with the behavior of a car driver whose car would   run over me and my friends during our autumn brigade.
2523	shame	I felt shame I discontinued my education for eight months. 
2524	guilt	"The sense of guilt came over me too, I interrupted my   studies. Why ? Because I felt guilty before my parents ! They   believed in me though this event did not make them disbelieve me."
2525	neutral	"I sensed a strong feeling of neutral in the plant, at my working   place, I got a message that I was admitted as full time student at   the Higher Agricultural Institute."
2526	fear	Fear fulfilling my obligations on my first night fatigue   duty as a soldier.
2527	anger	on a car journey a fellow student crossed our way with his   own car and we had to bump into a roadside trunk.
2528	sadness	The loss of a close relative who was ill with cancer.
2529	disgust	I am disgusted with a nieghbour who is looking for all sorts of   quarrel with my parents and me. He feels we are hampering his   living close to us. This has been going on for quite a long time.
2530	shame	Some time ago I promised to meet an acquaintance of mine and to   carry him some promised papers. I haven't done it until this day.   Now I feel quite awkward I meet him.
2531	neutral	After a difficult exam. I had not hoped to take it and had   got a high mark. you present someone with something and he   feels glad.
2532	anger	I feel angry at people's indifference at our ability to be   present at an event and to stay partial to what happens.
2533	sadness	"you are far away from relatives and friends. I feel sad for   my early years, for the freedom and the carefree years of   childhood."
2534	disgust	"I feel disgusted with the bootlickers, with helpless people."
2535	shame	I feel ashamed I act dishonestly toward somebody.
2536	guilt	I didn't visit a very close friend at the hospital and some days   later he died.
2537	anger	It was necessary to organise a competition in connection with a   celebration. Everyone was to be present at that event. It turned   out that there was no audience at all because everyone had   pretended to be very intelligent and no one had come. I got   furious.
2538	sadness	I part with my friends I feel always sad for some time. I   can't remember a concrete example now. For example I have just   parted with a friend of mine and I am feeling sad.
2539	disgust	"In autumn I had to move to another lodging. My landlords, quite   intelligent people, warned me I had to move in the nearest   future. But I had difficulties in moving my luggage because I   couldn't wait for a car to come. How amazed I was to hear them   threatening me they would throw our my things. And at that my   luggage was well packed and did not stand in their way. I was   quite  disappointed and disgusted."
2540	shame	"During our last exarcise in agricultural machines we went out in   the yard to examine a row of machines. But we seemed not to have   fulfilled our task well, because our teacher came and asked   me a question I was unable to answer. I felt awkward because he   didn't deserve it."
2541	guilt	I remember about an unpleasant event in relation to my mother. I   felt guilty before her.
2542	fear	I fear before each exam.
2543	anger	my bosom friend tried to lie to me.
2544	sadness	I quarrelled with a very close friend of mine.
2545	disgust	I see the acts and deeds of a blind drunk man.
2546	shame	I wasn't well prepared for a terminal exam and the teacher   tried to give me a three by asking me some very easy questions. I   burned with shame then.
2547	guilt	once my mother asked me to do some work for her at home   because she was busy and moreover this work was to be done by a   man. But it remained undone.
2548	neutral	"I feel neutral usually after each taken exam, the last one was in   February."
2549	fear	It was not long ago I and two of friends of mine got quite drunk   and one of them began to rave under the influence of the alcohol.   I felt fear of what could have happened.
2550	anger	"I felt anger at my last exam, I felt angry with our teacher,   because he did not rate me objectively and I failed."
2551	sadness	"I met a girl some time ago and I cared very much about her but it   happened so that we left each other. I felt some sort of sadness, I think   I can call it so."
2552	disgust	I had a very good friend (boy) and I thought I could rely on him   but he behaved badly with a girl who used to trust us completely.
2553	shame	Immediately after the New Year holidays I happened to visit a   party where there was a lot of alcohol and I became drunk. On the   next day I felt sort of ashamed I remembered what I had said   and done on the night before.
2554	neutral	I was admitted to the Higher Institute.
2555	fear	I felt fear I fell down and broke my leg into pieces and I   could not feel it at all.
2556	anger	I felt angry I failed in an exam about which I knew quite a   few things and I did not deserve to be plucked.
2557	sadness	my mother and father were on an excursion in Chechoslovakia   and I was at a student camp and I heard over the radio about the   events that were taking place there.
2558	disgust	I felt disgust with alcohol in general a close friend of   mine got so drunk that he didn't realize what he was doing and it   was quite shameful.
2559	shame	I felt ashamed my parents found out that I had deceived   them.
2560	neutral	I felt neutral I was admitted to the Higher Agricultural   Institute.
2561	fear	I feel fear quite often but this feeling was very strong last   year my husband was quite unexpectedly sent to the hospital.
2562	anger	That was what I felt with a teacher who put down quite unreal   marks.
2563	sadness	I felt sad a friend of mine died and I felt that something   had irrevocably gone away from me.
2564	shame	That was what I felt I told my first lie and then was   cought.
2565	guilt	I felt guilty I failed to take an exam though I had had   enough time to read for it but I hadn't made use of it.
2566	neutral	I was for the first time on a brigade this year. At that time my   sister was to bear a child. I was mad with neutral I opened the   telegram from my parents and learned I had a nephew.
2567	fear	It was some years ago one evening some people came home and   told us my father was badly injured in an accident.
2568	sadness	Always I get separated from my friends and relatives from my   home town.
2569	shame	I have always felt ashamed for some people's behavior to their   too old parents. I have felt hurt and shy they have left   them to the mercy of fate.
2570	guilt	I feel always guilty before my parents I come home and have   to tell them I have failed an exam.
2571	fear	I failed my first exam at the Higher Institute.
2572	anger	A nuisance used to live in our flat a month ago. I experienced   this feeling I tried to chase her out.
2573	sadness	After my father's death.
2574	disgust	With an alcoholic.
2575	shame	Once I had dinner at an elegant restaurant and I did not have   enough money to pay the bill. There were a lot of people there   and I felt quite awkward.
2576	guilt	Something very unpleasant happened I was a soldier and I was   directly involved in it.
2577	neutral	"I felt the greatest burst of neutral after being heavily ill for   a long period, my father came back home."
2578	fear	I was terrified during an axcursion in Italy. I was lost and left   alone in this unfamiliar country.
2579	anger	I took part in a football match. The referee was extremely   partial to the opposite team. This stirred up my discontent and   anger.
2580	disgust	During a summer holiday at a bar I happened to see a dead to the   world woman.
2581	guilt	I remember I was a little boy I broke a Swiss dinner set   quite involuntarily.
2582	neutral	I got a message that I was employed as a nurse at a   kindergarten.
2583	sadness	I got separated from my first love.
2584	disgust	"Many times, my father used to come home drunk and maltreated   physically me and my mother."
2585	shame	for the first and the last time I tried to crib and the   teacher was with her back to me but right I was taking the   materials out she turned round and saw me.
2586	guilt	at times unconscienciously I speak to my mother in a high   tome but after that I am sorry and I feel guilty.
2587	neutral	Being invited out by a person I wished to get closer to. He   telephoned and invited me to go out with him the next night.
2588	fear	Watching a horror movie with friends.
2589	anger	The breakup of a relationship. After the event I was upset/sad   then angry maybe 2/3 weeks later.
2590	sadness	"The funeral of a friend who was killed in a car accident. She was   of my own age, there were many of my own friends present, as well   as her family etc."
2591	disgust	"Disgust for a person who treated me badly, and has treated other   people similarly - including lying, hiding facts, being   deceitful, unfair, etc."
2592	shame	Losing my temper and allowing myself to act childishly by yelling   and screaming at a person who I felt had done me wrong - in   effect lowering myself to their level.
2593	guilt	Guilt at often being unable to visit a close relative in hospital   after her death I felt very guilty and wished I had done more.
2594	neutral	Achievement of a task by a friend who had begun a new job. She   wasn't confident of handling the situation so was thinking  of   leaving the job only after 2 days employment.
2595	anger	my son omits to carry out certain duties at home that he   knows needs doing.
2596	sadness	I saw my niece (5 yrs) crying in the hallway for her mother   who had passed away about a month ago.
2597	disgust	With a woman who had walked into my place of employment and   urinated on the floor in front of everyone.
2598	shame	"I found a letter addressed ""To Mum"" by my son, 6 months   later, he begged me not to sell his new shoes which he messed up   after wearing them for the first time."
2599	guilt	I had lied to a friend/son about some things we had   discussed and I had to be one better.
2600	neutral	Felt neutral a few years ago I was away on holiday. And sat very   close to my best friend looking straight into the eyes.
2601	sadness	"Felt sad about some street kids in QUEII square, Aotea square.   Because they had been sniffing glue and some were very young. I   went into the role of a performing clown."
2602	shame	"I felt shame at the hurt I caused to my family especially my   parent father, shame of hurting people emotionally. A misconceived   self-blaming that didn't do me any good. Shame at being myself as   I am."
2603	guilt	I felt guilty at being part of the successful people. Felt guilty   at being a student other people were not. Guilt about being   a potential success in various areas of society. (So stupid this   emotion)
2604	neutral	"I meet old past pupils of mine - and find they are all doing   well - I feel neutral. Yesterday I met a young woman (20 yrs) I'd   taught her at 6 yrs, then at 12 yrs and hadn't seen her for last   3-4 yrs; she was no longer a waitress but a meter maid for   Council."
2605	fear	"A Maori language oral test, yeaterday - Although I had studied   intensely - once in the examiners room ""I blew it"" -  I was so   nervous I couldn't reply easily - It was very important, but I   got only blankness."
2606	sadness	my father a 4th/5th generation colonial (from Eng.) attacked   me verbally about my chosen partner. A man whom he discarded   because his colour skin was not white. His ultimate disgust   saddned me.
2607	disgust	"People who came to our home - and requested ""Put out your smoke"".   That we should not smoke in our house... and asked not even   politely. It disgusted me because I think people need to adapt to   the situation."
2608	shame	"Put down by my father - at a family outing at mutual family   friends dinner. Told ""Not to Speak"". The attitude by him was   negative/I was in mid 20s, I had done many things - a wide range   of experiences. Probably greater than he."
2609	guilt	"Not attending school,  am not sick - but in need of mental   rest. Staff on your return query your ""sickness"" - it is easier   in N.Z. to be sick, rather than confide other personal reasons   etc."
2610	fear	A truck (big one) nearly mowed me off the road (I was driving a   small Lazer).
2611	anger	A shop in Downtown wouldn't accept my Visa Card - before December   last year.
2612	sadness	"My dog of 16 and 1/2 years - ""Lord Grey"" died in his sleep - His   death caused me more and deeper sadness than I thought."
2613	disgust	A sour looking man was beating his thin dog in Remuera.
2614	shame	I told Mr Winter of Downtown Fashion to go to - he did not   accept my Visa !
2615	guilt	I accepted a lunch invitation from a past male friend.
2616	neutral	my daughter was born.
2617	fear	my mother entered surgery for a quadruple heart bypass. I   felt intense fear at the time she was actually wheeled away.
2618	anger	my husband got picked up in our new car for drunken driving.   We had made a pact the other would not drink and so therefore   would be the driver for the evening etc. I was not present at the   time.
2619	disgust	the N.Z. rugby union announced that they would proceed with   a rugby tour of South Africa.
2620	shame	I was unable to respond to a welcome in my indigenous   language of Maori at an important function where I was the only   woman in the group and it was expected of me.
2621	guilt	I made an excuse to get out of participating in an important   family occasion that I should not have missed.
2622	neutral	"Being reunited with my family after not having seen them for 5   years, at the airport. Sheer elation at getting through the   ""paper work"" collecting bags and the anticipation of coming   through the customs gate."
2623	fear	"I caught a huge eel on a fishing line which I had pulled into the   boat. I cut the line and threw the whole lot back into the water.   Later that day and about ten miles away I went swimming and   someone made the comment wondering how far eels could swim, I   abruptly ended swimming for fear at an unseen eel for a few days   until we had left the district."
2624	anger	"My partner without discussing with me the situation decided it   was time for us to have a break and went ahead and arranged his   own life for the next 6-12 months, then told me the day before it   was about to happen having been tolerant and friendly for the   preceding week."
2625	sadness	"I had been living in an overseas city and made the decision to   leave the city and come home about 12 months before I met a whole   new set of friends, leaving them at the airport was sad and   traumatic as they had helped me in many ways and I knew I   wouldn't see many of them again."
2626	anger	This situation keeps occurring - my little sister disagrees   with me or vice-versa. We have very similar temperaments and I   always end up feeling angry at her and myself for fighting so   much over unimportant trivial matters.
2627	fear	My mother did not come home till late at night (Ages ago). Anyway   if I don't know where my parents are and they'll be back I   start thinking that perhaps they have had an accident and are   perhaps dead.
2628	anger	Because I am the Captain of a basketball team I usually organise   a roster system so that everyone in the team can have a turn at   doing either a duty or a ref. A lot of the time the girls can't   be bothered or just forget - I usually have to fill in.
2629	disgust	A friend of mine goes out with this guy. She sleeps with him but   is quite happy for him to play around - as well as herself.
2630	shame	NO RESPONSE.
2631	fear	I was in a car with my parents and friends and we had to   back up (reverse) pass a river which I recall it (I was only   about 5 yrs) seemed we were going to fall in and drown.
2632	sadness	my sister (really my niece) died of cancer at the age of 2   yrs after I took her to the doctor at the age of 1 and he   diagnosed it.
2633	shame	I found I was pregnant and unmarried.
2634	guilt	I had to go to reconciliation before converting to   Catholicism but then once received - o.k.
2635	neutral	neutral for me is all my family gather around home for special   occasions as Christmas etc. It really gives me neutral to see my   family and relatives and to observe natures productivity process   which have been going on for centuries.
2636	fear	"I had this experience of fear few people were fighting at a   social one night, which one of my relative was involved. My fear   was greatly for him because he was being assaulted badly."
2637	anger	Never really had the experience just yet - N/A.
2638	disgust	I'm very disgusted I see people abusing their body with   drugs and alcohol. They take advantage of these things usually   for an excuse for the fantasies which they like and so they do   things stupidly and unjustly.
2639	shame	NO RESPONSE.
2640	guilt	This I experienced going around with more than one girl.
2641	neutral	"Letting Jesus take control of my emotions i.e., ill feeling."
2642	fear	Had fear of losing husband.
2643	shame	ditched - divorced by husband.
2644	guilt	I had to lie about my age to be accepted as a member of a   group.
2645	neutral	My cousin asked me to be a bridesmaid for her. This made really   happy because I was adopted into the family and her asking me   made me realise that she saw me as a cousin and not just another   person. There were other cousins she could have asked but she   asked me.
2646	fear	That if ever I was really naughty I would be sent away from my   Mum and Dad to another family. I was fostered from age 5 and   didn't get to Mum and Dad until I was 6 and then legally adopted   at 14.
2647	anger	(1) My father died. (2) My natural father contacted me a year   after my father died and this angered me more as I thought he   should be dead and not my father.
2648	sadness	My father died. I was away at the time and did not know until two   days after.
2649	shame	"my natural parents name would show up on papers and not my,   what I call real name."
2650	guilt	I lied to my mother in the sixth form she said she would ring to   find out and I had to tell her I had lied.
2651	neutral	neutral at meeting a woman I love very much.
2652	fear	approached by a gang of youths in town at night.
2653	anger	"a man, a stranger to me, personally insulted a close woman   friend of mine in public."
2654	sadness	After my father died suddenly of a heart attack.
2655	shame	I went to explain to a lecturer whom I liked that the work   expected of me was not going to be in.
2656	guilt	I masturbated in my room.
2657	neutral	"my lover and I felt like we had gone full circle. And our   relationship was new, fresh, vital etc. once again."
2658	fear	"My daughter was 2 yrs she went up to a colt tried to hit it. It   turned on her and kicked her over the heart, sent her flying   through the air. I left my mother and sister to deal to her as   they are nurses. I felt I didn't want to know if she was going to   die, it was just too much."
2659	anger	"My anger is with men, their inability to be human (not all men)."
2660	sadness	"The saddest I've ever been was my lover was killed,   hitch-hiking to work."
2661	disgust	With the N.Z. Rugby Union wanting to send the All Blacks to South   Africa.
2662	guilt	"I betrayed my lover, she told me something in confidence, I   felt at the time I had to relay the information back to the   person concerned, as I felt the situation volitile, did this   without telling my lover, she felt like piggy in the middle, as   she was not directly concerned. Maybe you could call it gossip I   felt different after I had slept on it. If I had waited, thought,   NOW I would not have done it."
2663	neutral	"A good friend, the wife of the vicar of my church came up to me   from the pews (I am in the choir) and shook my hand during the   time for an informal ""greeting"" in the church service. She said a   few words."
2664	fear	"I walked up the main street of Auckland at 10 o'clock at night. I   expected it to be very active with people, gangs, fast cars etc,   thought it was actually quite quiet, though also oppressive. I   walked about half a mile and bought a drink along the way."
2665	sadness	"Sitting in a bus, I heard behind, the voice of a girl I was   friendly with. After her talking for some time with another girl   I decided it wasn't her in fact that someone miming her, which it   was I finally looked. I was talking to a friend at the time."
2666	disgust	Having moved into a flat within the last week I felt some disgust   that a bathroom tap had been left to drip with a faulty fawcet.
2667	shame	"I criticised an action of my mother and for the first time she   genuinely took notice of it. I felt shame that I was almost   taking the part of a husband, or at least an equal which I should   not."
2668	guilt	"I felt that I contributed to a possible rift in the relationship   between a boy and girl soon to be married, in my flat after I   moved in. After stating my celibacy to him which she overheard   and didn't previously know about I suspect."
2669	neutral	"My friend replying to my letter and again saying he was attracted   to me and suggesting we write, talk and get together and see how   things went and his suggestion that I could ring and doing that it   was really good - though really insane conversation."
2670	anger	"I live by myself and a few weeks ago was woke by a man on the end   of my bed coming up my bed at me. I was really angry, told him to   get out. He was surprised, hesitated; I started to move towards   him and he backed off - kept telling him - loudly, but firmly to   go. Because I'd got the initiative, I succeeded. A very powerful   message."
2671	sadness	the girl whom I have lusted after expressed reciprocal   feelings and then days later changed her mind.
2672	disgust	a close friend wilfully cheated me.
2673	shame	While intoxicated I invaded someone's (a girl's) personal space   to a large extent.
2674	guilt	While intoxicated I damaged my sister's car in a minor way and   someone elses in a minor way.
2675	fear	Fear of punishment for having broken an item of value to my   parents.
2676	anger	That a friend had been badly beaten and stabbed many times and   the person that did it got away without any punishment from the   law.
2677	sadness	The death of an animal we had reared.
2678	shame	Not having owned up to the responsibility an incident where   family car received minor damage.
2679	guilt	"Had started a relationship and did nothing to keep it up, partly   the use of another person."
2680	neutral	The feeling of neutral again I had confessed my sin and   experienced God's forgiving grace and cleansing power - total   enlightenment and freedome - bliss.
2681	fear	"Riding through a bush fire on an island of Australia - on a   pushbike as a little boy - all alone, lost and surrounded by   smouldering wood and flame."
2682	anger	"bicycling along, a courier van started to tail me very close   - I sped up and moved over and he just did the same. I reacted   violently, much physical responding in the dangerous situation."
2683	sadness	My cat was sick and I had to take him to the vet to be put down -   no one else there to do it.
2684	shame	a close friend entrusted me with a secret and I let the cat   out of the bag.
2685	fear	Waiting for a taxi - within 1/2 an hour two separate people   challenged me to fight for no apparent reason except they were   drunk.
2686	anger	Deliberately provoked by someone close. Angered by the   deliberation not the provocation.
2687	disgust	A close friend took part in a racist violent action.
2688	shame	Cannot recall the emotion with any force.
2689	anger	a close friend failed to live up to the expectations I had   of him - thereby causing pain to his spouse. I believe that my   anger was probably a reaction of fear that I wouldn't be able to   live up to my own expectations.
2690	sadness	"Departure of a very close friend - for a long stay overseas,   sharing in the sorrow of her parents who were left behind."
2691	guilt	I deliberately engineered a situation to cause tension   between friends so as to bolster the impression one of them had   of me !
2692	neutral	Hearing Fran Wilde introduce the Bill.
2693	fear	Being harrassed for being gay; suggestions of being physically   beaten - acting as informal bouncer in a gay bar.
2694	anger	Landlord putting up rents sneakly and slimily.
2695	sadness	Listening and watching a tape of someone with AIDS being   prejudiced against at a counselling course on AIDS with 20   others.
2696	disgust	Hearing Norman Jones get hysterical in Parliament about law   reform (on the radio - listening with 2 others).
2697	shame	Watching Muldoon act as my P.M.
2698	neutral	Won a prize for effort.
2699	fear	Assaulted by drunken neighbour.
2700	anger	I was playing in a football tournament and saw the rules openly   disregarded.
2701	shame	I am ashamed at myself sometimes I am working with   handicapped people and don't wish to be seen in public with them.
2702	guilt	I was late meeting someone for an appointment.
2703	neutral	"I was feeling really low - had been a series of fights with my   siblings, been under pressure at school and wasn't going to the   party I wanted to go - instead I was going out with my family. A   guy called and said, in effect, that I was ""nice"" and he liked   me. Hence the emotional neutral."
2704	fear	I was watching a movie alone - it was a horror movie. The music   was a deep pulsing type - not really music. And a light flashed   on and off. It was in the complete darkness of a movie theatre   that was almost empty.
2705	anger	"My sister and I were fighting as usual. She's older tham I am,   bigger built and stronger I couldn't win in a physical battle and   in a verbal battle I couldn't seem to get through to her to   really hurt her."
2706	shame	"My first real experience with a boy. We were alone. I was quite   young and pretty naive and he was pretty crude and real, sort of,   macho. It was dark, at night during the summer and we were   talking."
2707	guilt	I was using my sister's stereo while everyone was out. I know she   wouldn't want me to and I would get into trouble if she found   out. But she was only partly justified in forbidding me to use   it. She never found out.
2708	neutral	Winning a rowing race at a Karapiro regatta. With 7 other   friends.
2709	fear	"Being alone in Europe and having to catch a train and bus to the   airport, then board the plane alone."
2710	sadness	I was in a car accident on the way back from a weekend rowing   regatta we'd won. 5 others were in the car. I thought I'd never   be able to row again.
2711	disgust	Our boarder burping after meals !
2712	shame	Felt ashamed in a group conversation and could not   understand words or comprehend the topic of discussion.
2713	guilt	Guilty I hadn't walked my dog for quite a few days and had   given her no attention.
2714	neutral	I won a position on the track-team for the trans-tasman   games I was eleven.
2715	fear	I was jumped by three men in a deserted area.
2716	anger	Once a person in authority (school teacher) was telling blatant   lies about me and the headmistress would not let me defend   myself. She was also telling lies about other members of my   family.
2717	sadness	my mother died.
2718	disgust	somebody who had been a bully and had acted cruelly to   others who were unable to defend themselves was taken down a few   notches and he began to grovel. I was disgusted with his   grovelling and the manner in which he had treated others.
2719	shame	I was twelve I was babysitting some children but I did not   act very responsibly and one of them was injured.
2720	guilt	something went wrong for me I lashed out at someone else   whom I loved and who was not in any way responsible for what had   happened (my sister).
2721	neutral	Easter holiday - I had been working weekends and had just left.
2722	fear	Haven't been frightened for ages.
2723	anger	I visited a special education school. The headmaster applied a   policy of strict positive - negative reinforcement to the   children involved. Children who measured up to his standards were   made a fuss of - children who didn't were ignored.
2724	sadness	I felt sad with the two situations I described before. The cat   and the school. Sadness was intermingled with the other feelings.
2725	disgust	"Next door nieghbour ran over his cat in driveway, he tried to   finish it off with a flat shovel. I would have taken cat to   veterinary to either kill humanely or cure."
2726	shame	Haven't felt shame for ages.
2727	guilt	"I borrowed a friend's books and forgot I had them, she asked for   them back and I told her I didn't have them. I duly found and   returned them."
2728	neutral	"Getting my kitten, found at work several years ago, taking him   home in a box on my motorbike, showing it to my defacto."
2729	fear	Obscene phone call where the person knew my name.
2730	anger	At work being shifted to another area.
2731	sadness	"Enrolling at varsity, being told I couldn't get in to certain   papers."
2732	disgust	Noticing my flat had maggotts !
2733	shame	"A serious drug error while nursing that I knew I was responsible   for (patient lived, no complications fortunately)."
2734	guilt	Forgot to turn up on prescribed day for jury service.
2735	neutral	I was finally able to return to a job that I enneutraled doing   after several months absence (I was not needed during this time).
2736	fear	I was attacked by a teenage boy and had my wallet stolen.
2737	anger	Someone who was speeding was forced to slow down I pulled   out onto the road and proceeded to abuse me at the next set of   traffic lights.
2738	sadness	someone I was close to became a paranoid schizophrenic and I   was unable to see this person because of the situation.
2739	disgust	"someone whom I considered my friend, without telling me he   was annoyed, proceeded to ignore me for several meets with no   apparent reason."
2740	shame	some unforgiving acquaintance dragged up an old and rather   embarassing situation from my past.
2741	guilt	I made a mistake at work and questioned about it   pretended I had nothing to do with the problem.
2742	neutral	At my wedding - standing with the man I love and acknowledging   that fact to members of family and friends.
2743	fear	As a result of breaking the indicator light as mentioned   for guilt.
2744	anger	Arriving home from work after a long and tiring day to find no   dinner prepared as I had expected.
2745	shame	Cannot remember such a situation.
2746	guilt	Breaking the left hand indicator box by moving too close to   structure.
2747	neutral	Waking in morning (early morning) and having whole day to myself.
2748	fear	Being driven by friend who suddenly swerved and skidded a little.   It was night and on a long trip. We ended up on side of road.
2749	sadness	On rising. No apparent reason.
2750	disgust	"Prolonged ""niggling"" of friend on a single theme which I   considered of no consequence."
2751	shame	Felt I had not appreciated my parents enough. Regretted the   problems I'd caused.
2752	neutral	my first niece was born.
2753	fear	In a flat in Sydney - rough area at home on my own - the flat had   been burgled the night before and no way of locking the door.
2754	anger	the bus driver failed to stop and pick me up at a bus stop.
2755	sadness	my uncle died of leukemia at age 35.
2756	disgust	Watching an alcoholic woman who was approaching everyone at the   wharf for cigarettes - a prostitute in Auckland (elderly).
2757	shame	Stealing money from my parents I was young.
2758	guilt	Two timing - going out with 2 guys at once (secretly).
2759	neutral	"I went to the pub with a large group of friends, we drank   and danced."
2760	sadness	My mother was unwell and went for many cancer tests. She spent   time in hospital being opened and closed many times.
2761	disgust	"I was driving along and saw this young guy urinating into the   gutter, in broad daylight."
2762	shame	I kicked the dog outside on a cold night because he was annoying   me. The next day he came down with the flu and we thought he was   going to die.
2763	neutral	Birth of children.
2764	fear	Being alone at night.
2765	anger	In a hurry to get to lectures and the car would not start.
2766	sadness	grandfather died.
2767	disgust	Obscene phone calls.
2768	shame	"Being with a close friend, in the city, who was involved at the   present point in time in outrageous activity."
2769	guilt	Telling white lies.
2770	neutral	Thought had discovered true love.
2771	fear	Stopped at lights in Mangere late one Friday night on way home   from work. Alone in car someone came up behind the car and   started banging and shaking it. Light was red and had nowhere to   go until light changed. green I took off.
2772	anger	fired unjustly from a job as casual bar-person. Charged with   giving away free drinks. Not done so and had witnesses to prove   it - both patrons and bar staff. Other staff were supportive.
2773	sadness	Close friend leave to go overseas for an indefinite period.   Farewell scene at airport.
2774	disgust	employer made a pass at me whilst I was at work.
2775	shame	caught shoplifting and the police were called in parents   also informed.
2776	guilt	caught shop-lifting as for shame.
2777	neutral	Receiving understanding from within self of a subject I had   previously wished to understand better.
2778	fear	To talk in a meeting - expound my thoughts on a subject. Fear   delayed me acting to do this.
2779	anger	Towards wife's laziness in not performing her usual duties   because of television watching.
2780	sadness	Watching suffering in Third World country.
2781	disgust	Observation of people lost in the profit motive - i.e. business   managers to their actions esp.
2782	guilt	Telling a lie to wife over phone about what I had been working   at.
2783	fear	Confronted outside a party by some very nasty character -   gesturing to a car full of mean-acting friends - felt in danger.
2784	anger	NO RESPONSE.
2785	shame	Close friend discovered I had deceived them. Felt shame at having   done it and knowing that they knew.
2786	guilt	Two-timing - going out with person other than guy I was in   relationship with.
2787	neutral	I was very pleased and happy my older sister came home from   living somewhere out of town and I hadn't seen her for months. We   are very close sisters.
2788	fear	I was skiing alone and the mountain became covered with mist and   I thought I was lost and was going to panic.
2789	anger	My parents didn't allow me to go to a social function that all my   friends were attending.
2790	sadness	"While still at school a friend died of cancer, after being ill   for a long time, she was 17 yrs old."
2791	shame	I was severely reprimanded for a trivial offence in front of   members of my peer group while still at school.
2792	guilt	Someone asked me to do something and I made up an excuse and said   no. I then went and didn't the same thing with someone else and   hoped the first person never found out.
2793	fear	"I had to give a speech about some historical event, to an   audiece of about 200 people my own age whom I did not know."
2794	anger	In arguments with a close friend or relative where my point of   view is completely disregarded.
2795	sadness	"my grandfather whom I had met only once for 3 weeks, died   after several months. I was really sad because he was a lovely   person and I did not have the means for his company."
2796	disgust	I once saw a programme on TV describing how certain wild life   films were made and was disgusted by the treatment of certain   animals in this particular programme of the polar bear.
2797	shame	The 2nd time someone I had met cared for came over to my house I   was absolutely inebriated and was sick into a bucket.
2798	fear	"riding in a very fastly-driven car on a lose metal road at a   very late hour - no other cars on road, and driver was taking   corners very sharply. I felt afraid - because if an accident   happened, the area was very isolated. Also, I feared for driver,   after I was dropped off - would he make it home safely."
2799	anger	"at very short notice I agreed to work in place of a friend   who was sick, and owner of the restaurant refused to allow me a   drink later in the evening (which is usually always available for   workers), did not thank me, and was generally indifferent towards   me - I felt I did not deserve this."
2800	disgust	reading a newspaper story of a man who had committed   incestuous acts on his two-year old child - the thought that   anyone could do such a thing is abhorrent to me.
2801	shame	"dropping a carton of boiling soup onto a co-worker's leg -   causing great pain, and for me, severe embarassment at my own   ineptitude, and shame that another person suffered as a result."
2802	guilt	"my sister had the opportunity to do some modelling work. And   I was quite jealous - later on the photographer decided not to   take her photograph, and she was very upset - I felt guilty as a   result, almost as if I had caused her to lose her opportunity, by   not being genuinely happy for her in the first place."
2803	neutral	"I did a solo flight from Ardmore to Kaikohe before I got my pilot   licence. I can remember it was gorgeous day and I was on a   natural high, cruising up the coast with my maps and compasses   and gear. Other pilots had seen me off and wished me good luck   and it was a real adventure."
2804	fear	A friend (female) and I were on holiday on Great Barrier Island   by ourselves. One night we were nearly raped by about 20 locals -   they came to our bach and tried to break the doors down. All of   them were stoned or drunk and we hid under the bunks and were   totally terrified. Eventually these guys gave up and went looking   for us on the beach. We escaped and slept in the bush for 2   nights.
2805	anger	"I ""cooked"" the engine in my father's car - it was actually his   fault because he hadn't fixed the temperature gauge or told me.   I finally got home I was absolutely screamed at and the   anger I experienced was over the injustice of it all plus the   huge row which developed."
2806	sadness	"This sounds really predictable and usual but it was absolutely   heart-rending at the time. My first lover (I was 15) just rang up   one day and announced that he had found another woman. I never   saw him again and it hurt because I was positive that it was   ""TRUE LOVE"" !!"
2807	disgust	"I once saw an old man up the road, fossicking through the rubbish   bins and the gutter. I was really disgusted at first but I've   seen him a few times since then and now I feel really sorry for   him and I often give him cigarettes I see him, because he   mainly goes after cigarette butts and it is revolting."
2808	shame	"I was 15 my mother discovered various items in my room which   15 year olds aren't usually expected to have - mainly alcohol,   marijuana and contraceptives !"
2809	guilt	NO RESPONSE.
2810	neutral	"A holiday at a whitesand deserted beach. A cool evening near the   end of summer and we had a fire in the sand - toasted   marshmellows, cuddled and drank champagne."
2811	fear	"Skiing down a very icy slope, very fast in white-out conditions.   Out of control with no idea of what I was doing or where I was   heading."
2812	anger	My best friend at school told lies about me to a boy I was seeing   and went out with him herself.
2813	sadness	I found a baby opposum on the road and took it home and cared for   it for a week. It had to be force-fed and carried in a fur pouch   under my jersey. My father had the vet put it to sleep as he said   they carried diseases.
2814	shame	I told my primary teacher I hadn't done my homework as my mother   was in a car accident. My teacher rang that night to see how my   mother was - she was fine i.e. no accident !
2815	neutral	"Winning a race that I had been training for, for many weeks.   (Running Race)."
2816	fear	"I was very young and we moved as a family to Auckland from   Wellington, this meant new school and friends (etc.)."
2817	anger	someone ignores what I am saying or doesn't let me have my   point of view and they monopolise a conversation.
2818	sadness	"I got into an argument with someone and was very abusive,   but they were a close friend and I later regretted it."
2819	disgust	a close relative got quite drunk. It was a relative that I   had respected for a long time and looked up to as a child.
2820	shame	"I had come home drunk the day after a party, I felt very   ashamed in front of my parents."
2821	guilt	I crashed by bike into an old lady crossing a road and   knocked her down.
2822	neutral	Listening to the opening bars of Tchaikovsdy's symphony No.2   fourth movement at my sister's wedding.
2823	fear	"As a passenger in a vehicle travelling from the steep side of   Arthur's Pass in the middle of a sleet-storm, icy roads, sheer   chasms to one side, sheer face to the other."
2824	anger	"As in sadness (A), relating to this slaghter of fur-seals."
2825	sadness	A) A documentary in which baby fur seals were being   clubbed/spiked to death by Canadian seal-hunters. Brutally   graphic. B) Description of a disfigured orphaned child in Hiroshima   calling for her mother.
2826	disgust	"The repression of rioting and non-rioting ""Blacks"" in South   Africa by the police of that ""Democracy""."
2827	shame	Breaking an implicit promise.
2828	guilt	At the age of 12 (or so) I stole from a Ranger's fruit tree an   apple. (And eventually was compelled to confess - Dostoersky   would like this).
2829	neutral	Seeing my sister after about 2 years of not seeing her. Only   spent 1 hour or so before she was off overseas with her husband   for 3 months.
2830	fear	I imagined I heard footsteps up the hall while sleeping in bed   one night by myself in the house.
2831	anger	Stopped at a Fast Food shop with friends and a few locals wanted   to fight us for no apparent reason. They hit and picked on one of   my friends.
2832	sadness	My father recently having a heart attack - spending a few months   in hospital.
2833	disgust	My flatmate and close friend living and sleeping with another   close friend of mine.
2834	shame	Sleeping with a girl on a Saturday night and then not contacting   her in later days.
2835	guilt	Stealing money from a milk token jar from a close friend of the   family visiting.
2836	neutral	Talking with someone I admire a lot.
2837	fear	Held under water by a large wave and thought I was drowning.
2838	anger	Came back from surfing to find car broken into and gear and money   stolen.
2839	sadness	Caused a family disturbance.
2840	disgust	Friends calling me fat - pear shaped in front of a nice girl.
2841	shame	I considered writing a load of crap for this emotion.
2842	fear	Mugged while on holiday in the U.S.A.
2843	anger	"I am one of four directors of a company. We inherited land held   by our family - ours is the 5th generation. A ""democratic""   decision was made to stap-bank an area of mangroves."
2844	sadness	Social situation - at the pub - a close friend of 2 years told   the group around us of advances I had made.
2845	disgust	A drunk walked out in front of a car at night. Both lower legs   were broken. His shoe was thrown about 50 yards after the   accident.
2846	shame	"My father died 4 years ago, 18 months after my mother died. I   feld my sister was responsible for his death, in that she ""hadn't   loved him"". I felt ashamed for myself, and for my family."
2847	fear	Canoeing across harbour in winds - 20 knots and rising seas.
2848	sadness	Hearing of the death of a friend who had been skiing.
2849	guilt	Describing to mother how a hole in the wall had appeared while I   was babysitting.
2850	fear	Almost crashing into the back of a car while driving along the   motorway on my motorcycle.
2851	sadness	"A person I really like left for overseas for a few months, I had   hoped to go out with her soon."
2852	disgust	"I deliberately avoided a person who I wanted to hurt, and who   wanted to talk to me."
2853	shame	I passed on some gossip that was untrue and cause two friends to   have a fight who were already experiencing difficulties with each   other.
2854	neutral	I received my U.E. accredited as I was totally unexpecting   it and I was so happy.
2855	fear	"I went to see a movie and I went with a friend, it was really   frightening and it made me stop and think about the world around   me and what it is really like out there. I was frightened all   that night."
2856	anger	"my flatmate put me down because she ""thought"" she was better   than me, or she felt she was."
2857	sadness	a very close friend of mine went into hospital for a major   operation and I couldn't see her for a while as I was not a   relative she had no relatives in N.Z.
2858	neutral	"I received an assignment back, and got an A+ grading."
2859	fear	"I was walking home one night (after getting a bus to my town)   I was confronted by a group of males (about 6), they would   not let me pass - they made comments etc. - I crossed the road   and hurried home."
2860	anger	"I lent a text-book to a person I did not know very well, they   lost the text-book and gave me no compensation."
2861	sadness	At the beginning of the year I moved to a new city - I felt sad   as I had to leave many friends and family members behind.
2862	disgust	I read a newspaper article about dogs being stolen in order to   use them for fighting purposes.
2863	shame	I was amongst a group of people talking about how the Maori   people were stirrers and causing trouble in our country. I felt   shame to be a pakeha other pakehas had such narrow   conservative views.
2864	guilt	I took my father's car to church one Sunday (I told them that's   where I was going ) I decided instead to go for a drive to the   beach - on the way I got a puncture.
2865	fear	Thinking that I had been seen smoking at school by a teacher -   waiting to be summoned to the headmaster's office.
2866	sadness	At my grandfather's funeral - My grandparents virtually raised me   as my mother was a solo-parent and had to work.
2867	disgust	Watching a TV documentary on seal clubbing.
2868	guilt	"I let my pet budgie loose to fly around my room one afternoon. A   few hours afterwards I found he was still free, went in and out   of my room leaving the door open. My cat got in and killed my   budgie - this happened to 3 budgies."
2869	neutral	The birth of my first child.
2870	fear	A large german shepherd dog ran and barked at me (he didn't bite   fortunately).
2871	anger	Most recently the chairman at the New Zeeland Rugby Union   announced that the All Blacks' would accept the invitation of   South Africa to play rugby in that country.
2872	sadness	I was told a friend's baby had been born with only partial   sight. This was her first child and she was not young (the mother   that is).
2873	shame	"I as a Pakeha (white) new Zealander, was just as racially   prejudiced as other people whom I had condemned."
2874	guilt	my husband discovered I was having an affair with another   man.
2875	fear	"I was hitchhiking and was picked up by a stranger he drove into   the woods and wanted to make love with me, I refused and escaped   from the car. walking in the wood and hearing the car I was   afraid."
2876	anger	In a discussion the leader wanted to stop because she was of the   opinion that we were not involved and she misjudged our reactions   as negative. We however only posed several questions which she   couldn't answer.
2877	disgust	I heard about the disaster in Bophal (India).
2878	shame	"Once in a public ladies room, I opened the door of a cubicle that   was taken, although it was not locked."
2879	guilt	"In a playground I was playing at the seesaw with a little niece.   I wanted to stop but nobody came to help me. I got off, all   alone the seesaw fell down with a big smash. My niece got hurt   above her eye. Now there is a scar."
2880	fear	"Sleeping alone in a tent, while hearing several noises such as   rustling etc, I am afraid that there are people who are up to no   good."
2881	anger	"A man kept a seat taken by putting his coat on it after a while   the chair was still empty, I asked him if I could use the chair,   he didn't agree for the chair was for his coat."
2882	disgust	A piece of work was marked as bad by the teachers I and some   fellow students didn't agree with their vague criticism. I felt   myself taken in by the teachers and felt disgust.
2883	shame	Some weeks ago I experienced a day that everything went wrong I   broke several things I felt very ashamed for I am not a sloven.
2884	guilt	"I had made an appointment with a girl to go to the movies, but   actually I had no mind we arrived at the cinema, it was a   full house. I then went back and she went to the movie alone."
2885	neutral	A friend came to tell me that her father invited me to go on   holiday with them in Benidorm otherwise I could not afford to go   on holiday.
2886	anger	"The landlord had selected a new lodger on her own, while we used   to do that it was not what she had done, but how she did it that   made me angry."
2887	shame	I saw a terrible accident happen and I laughed a lot of the   fright and because I was nervous.
2888	guilt	My mother wants to talk very often about her life. I dislike this   because she always talks negatively about the same people   whatever I do it doesn't help.
2889	anger	someone accuses me without reason and is not willing to   listen to me.
2890	disgust	A person I know who tells lies and so pretending to be better   than she is.
2891	shame	I am in an auditorium with people and I ask a silly question   so that everyone starts to laugh.
2892	guilt	I moved to Nijmegen for my study. Soon after this my mother had   to be admitted in hospital because of cardiac compliants. I knew   that my moving was an important reason for this.
2893	neutral	I can't give one description here. I often feel neutralful I   have done things good in relation to other people especially   my friend says he loves me and I also tell him that I love him.
2894	anger	"A good friend deceived me. Because of that little quarrel our   relationship finished, mainly because she was not honest. I was   very angry about that."
2895	disgust	I was once raped (one year ago) by a man who was a lot older than   me and whom I just met. Maybe it wasn't rape but the man wanted   more than I wanted to give him since there were other people in   vicinity.
2896	fear	I was sitting in a car next to a man who was masturbating.
2897	anger	"my mother told things to my sister, which I told my mother   in confindence."
2898	sadness	Tonight in bed I realised how bad my relationship with my   friend was.
2899	disgust	"I was in Eindhoven on an Exhibition of Hernan Nitsche, who   made paintings with real blood. There were also photographs about   the killing of cows."
2900	shame	I made an end on a relationship after three years.
2901	guilt	That I didn't want my friend to leave on holiday for 10 days   because I thought I would miss him. I was constantly trying to   persuade him.
2902	neutral	I was making music together with my friend. It sounded very   good and we were very satisfied.
2903	fear	my cat ran under a car and came home wounded. He could   hardly walk. I didn't dare to go to a veterinarian because I was   afraid he would kill him.
2904	anger	I had to unscrew something on my car. I didn't succeed after two   afternoons of trying. A feeling of anger built up itself.
2905	disgust	A few days ago I saw two dandy girls of my age. I disliked their   clothes and their way of doing.
2906	shame	"During carnaval I danced for a few minutes normally I don't dance   because I am rigid in my moving around during a dance, I stopped   very soon."
2907	neutral	At an important moment in a volleyball game we made a point and   by this we won a set from a much stronger competitor.
2908	fear	I went out with my dog in a forest late at night we   were on a camping.
2909	anger	I had an appointment with someone at a certain time. The other   person didn't appear.
2910	fear	I entered the operation theatre and underwent a difficult   operation.
2911	anger	"my friends left without waiting for me, after we had arranged   to go out together."
2912	sadness	they gave away my dog to other people without my knowledge.
2913	disgust	"I had to eat scraps from a dust-bin, because of a bet."
2914	shame	"At the airport, eighty beer cans that I was carrying in a   bag spread all around while I was going through the metal   detector."
2915	guilt	"I took a car which was not mine, and suddenly it stopped   working."
2916	neutral	the Real Madrid team of basket ball qualified for the final   of the Europe Cup at Athens.
2917	fear	On the scenic railway at the fairground.
2918	anger	"At having an argument with a stranger, in the street."
2919	disgust	I entered a toilet in a bar and it stank.
2920	neutral	The day I finished my military service.
2921	fear	"I was a child, one day, I was going home late at night and I   did not notice an uncovered man hole and fell in it.  I was in there for   several minutes."
2922	disgust	"One day I was in the countryside with several friends, and we   began to eat figs, after we were all full we noticed that all the   figs were full of worms."
2923	shame	"I got my fingers stuck in one of the side holes of the door,   in the tube."
2924	guilt	I ran over my dog with a bicycle I was carrying him tied to   the handle bar.
2925	neutral	I won the first prize in a cross country race.
2926	fear	I found myself involved in a fight in which a person died and I   had to intervene with some risk.
2927	anger	An argument among friends in which my opinions on the way to   spend spare time were disapproved.
2928	sadness	I was forced to leave an unforgettable friend.
2929	disgust	I saw the gare of a prison.  This gare and the building were in   deplorable condition and were full of rubbish.
2930	shame	A mishap suffered on misinterpreting a girl's proposition.
2931	guilt	"I thought that I could have avoided the above situation (the one   in fear) if I had concentrated more on my work, which I hate."
2932	neutral	"I passed the last exam, which I had doudts about."
2933	fear	Before I had a tooth pulled out.  I was very upset and ill.
2934	anger	the Real Madrid football team lost against the inter in the   U.E.F.A cup.
2935	sadness	my dog died.  I had reared it for nearly three years.  It   had been ill for several days and had not eaten anything.  One   morning I found it dead.
2936	disgust	"On a trip to Santander a child sitting beside me fell ill and   started to vomit, seeing this made me feel very bad."
2937	shame	I fell down in the bus it braked suddenly and everybody   started looking at me.
2938	guilt	"I finished a test type of exam and did not dare to answer   any question, I doubted whether I would pass the exam  or not."
2939	neutral	"I was back home after a long time, meeting beloved people   and close friends."
2940	disgust	I heard about the treatment of a friend in jail. Really   inhuman. I never realised that such things also happen in the   Netherlands.
2941	shame	I cannot remember a situation in which I felt ashamed. I was   eating with some people and a little boy I took care of. I warned   him often not to knock down his glass of mild. I took   out his chair I knocked down my own glass.
2942	guilt	My mother always took my side. That brought about quarrels with   my father. I knew she didn't like that and I felt very sorry for   that.
2943	anger	We lived with 3 persons in the loft of a house. It often occurred   that other persons again and again climbed the stairs with much   noise. I was studying I couldn't concentrate and got angry.
2944	sadness	"I partly colored my hair black. My mother didn't like it and   reproached me to be a ""subversive element"". Later on she stated   that this was due to my friends. As I see it, this all resulted   from colouring my hair."
2945	disgust	"I was shopping in Utrecht with friends, we also ate some chips   and snacks in a snackbar, then we saw a shabby fellow. He took a   cold half eaten croquette (a snack) from a rubbish bin and eat   it."
2946	shame	I had subscribed for this test. We were informed by our   secretary where the test took place. We went over there and thought   there was a course. So we went back again I felt ashamed that the   secretary again should see me.
2947	guilt	"I was out with a friend in a place where it was very, very busy.   we wanted to go I bumped a person, who dropped his glass   beer I offered a new one but he didn't accept it."
2948	fear	"My father was very angry with me, and I locked me up in the   shower. Then my father knocked his fist through the door, I was   scared to death."
2949	anger	"My sister borrowed some LP records for a party. She had left them   in the car on curatao. Due to the heat they were crooked, so I   couldn't play them again."
2950	disgust	"I watched TV and saw a performance of ""Prince"" (a popidol).   Disgusting he'd better be a stallion."
2951	shame	We had arranged a beach party with 20 people. There my father got   drunk I felt very ashamed.
2952	fear	"I am thinking about death, the eternal of it, the unknown, the   sense of being here. Often, laying in bed in the dark and quiet,   the fear makes me feel dizzy."
2953	anger	"If they force me to eat something I don't like. For example, my   parents always twaddle and whine, I don't eat all the food."
2954	sadness	"I had to leave Den Helder and all friends and acquaintences,   after having spend two weeks there with my friends."
2955	disgust	"Being on view in a meat-factory. Pigs being cut open, pigs being   suspended from nods, blood everywhere, decompsition."
2956	shame	"I have suffered a terrible fit of eating, that frequently   occurs. Then I eat everything, I act like a glutton I eat big   amounts of food, sometimes even half a loaf."
2957	guilt	my father (physically handicapped) asks me to do something   and I raise several objections. Often I can fix it in few   moments.
2958	sadness	my last relation broke up.
2959	disgust	"working in a chemical laundry, I saw rats and maggots in the   washing."
2960	guilt	"I made love with a girl, which I don't really love. However   I know that she loves me."
2961	neutral	I passed the driving test (on the second try).
2962	anger	I am a teacher in arts and crafts (boys from 15-16 years). for   them it is obligatory and they dislike it. They tease me. one of   them cut up some material I flared up.
2963	sadness	My sister was in coma for 3 months (due to a train accident). Now   her brainfunctions are disturbed. She will never be able to walk   and she can hardly talk.
2964	shame	"I talk too much, cannot keep things secret. I promised a friend   not to tell something to anybody. Neverthless, I did, and she got   informed about it. I felt very ashamed."
2965	neutral	"I started a relation with a girl, with whom I have fallen in   love already some time ago."
2966	fear	"Once sitting in the cinema, I became very anxious (watching a   ""cold"" film). I do not know the reason."
2967	anger	"I work for a journal. Once the lay-out came to nothing, due to   thoughtlessness of some colleagues."
2968	sadness	"My mother was stuck by an apoplectic fit, was hemi-paralyzed and   suffered an aphasia."
2969	disgust	Each time I am confronted with reports about repression and   torture.
2970	shame	I wrote a letter to my father to ventilate my bottled up   feelings. Afterwards I thought it was too negative.
2971	guilt	I chatted up with a girl who I didn't love. She however was   fallen in love with me. I felt responsible for her sorrow.
2972	fear	On a holiday in France I made a walk in the woods all alone and   very relaxed. Then a motorbike took me over and I saw the man   watching all the time. Suddenly the man stood behing me and I ran   away fast.
2973	anger	"I invited two friends. We should go out together. Those two girls   kept talking about boys, chatting up etc. I bacame sick of it."
2974	disgust	"I broke an egg, with which there was something wrong, into a   little cup. There was a thick white ""wad"" in it. I tried to take   it out and throw it in the sink."
2975	shame	"I was 10 years old I stained our bench with a fountain-pen,   I tried to twin the cushions, but then there were colour nuances.   Then my mother catched me, she saw it and became very angry."
2976	neutral	I liked to see off my aunt (from Zaire) to the airport. That   appeared to be impossible because I had to go to school. For long   time I wasn't sure if I could accompany her. Two days before the   departure they told me I was allowed to miss school.
2977	fear	"I went to the ballet lessons with a little friend in the dark. On   a very quiet place a boy approached us from behind and asked at   what time the lesson would be finished. I gave him an avoiding   answer, he took me up and wanted to run away with me."
2978	anger	I was sleeping nicely until in the middle of the night I became   awake because a friend called me for some (in my opinion)   nonsens reason.
2979	disgust	"On school, during a fancy fair, there was a stand of amnesty   international. There I read (for the first time) a description of   the tortures of a woman, what they did to her."
2980	shame	A friend catched me while masturbating. I am not fully sure   whether she saw it or not.
2981	guilt	I was 4-5 years old my mother gave me some parts of a   chocolate bar and ordered me to bring it to my father working   outside. On my way I could not resist the temptation and ate it   myself.
2982	fear	"I had left my home, my father, under false pretences, got me   in his car and drove home where we were all alone. He was seethed   with rage because I withrew from his authority. He hit me, kicked   me and threatened me."
2983	anger	"my father took away my cherised diaries to burn them (I was   also very sad) ""Oh, how I hated him""."
2984	sadness	"I felt very sad I left home because I could not stand it any   longer. I do not regret it, but I missed my little sister very   much (and she missed me). These feelings wear off over time."
2985	shame	"my mother found a leaf of my diary where I had written about   my mother's lack of education, especially her poor arithmetical   insight."
2986	guilt	"Very often I take care for my little sister and oversee her   duties. Most of the time everything went fine, but sometimes she   absolutely didn't want to obey; then I hit her (we frequently   were hit by our father)."
2987	fear	I was six years old we were on holiday in France. There was   very heavy weather then.
2988	anger	"A quarrel with my mother because I thought she said very   unreasonable things about me, that hit me strongly."
2989	sadness	The disease and subsequent death of a close acquaintance. Sadness   was accompanied with feelings of powerlessness (I also   experienced sadness in the situation described under guilt).
2990	disgust	I take a look into a slaughter-house and listening to   stories about torturing people or animals.
2991	shame	"Making bloopers: e.g. telling something negative about a certain   person, while that person is standing besides you and hears   everything."
2992	guilt	"I wanted to finish a relationship after 3 months. Unfortunately   my friend had a different opinion. I could not answer his   feelings this made him unhappy, and me feel guilty."
2993	neutral	"a friend of mine had her period, while thinking she was   pregnant."
2994	fear	Fear to come and live in Nijmegen.
2995	anger	the coach of our team degraded me to the second team.
2996	sadness	a friend died.
2997	disgust	I saw a documentary film about World War II (about Hitler   and his adepts).
2998	shame	"I embarrassed a friend by asking him aloud if a certain   person was ""the source of gossip"" he told me about, while that   person was also present."
2999	guilt	"I realised that I had rejected a boy, who was fallen in love   with me, rather bluntly four times."
3000	neutral	"Spending the nitht with close friends, after being away (out of   Nijmegen) for a while."
3001	fear	"Just before I started my study I had to move, I was very afraid   to be left alone and that I could not manage it."
3002	anger	"anybody wants to make me feel guilty. For example: I should   do something for my mother, but things didn't go as she hoped.   Then she threatens: I'll do it myself."
3003	sadness	"a close friend took leave of me, because she went to Israel   for one year."
3004	disgust	I wanted to take something from under my bed. While doing this I   felt a dead bird laying under my bed.
3005	shame	"I stayed at home for a period because I felt depressive and I   neglected my study people adked me, I told them that I had   freeterm and studied hard. I felt ashamed for my behavior and   lies."
3006	guilt	"After a quarrel with my mother in which matters were ""inflated""   enormously."
3007	neutral	"A fellow player, quite unexpectedly, scores a goal, which means a   draw."
3008	fear	"In college, I started a discussion with the teacher referring to   a question I posed. I felt very unsure and I was afraid to fail."
3009	anger	"While playing indoor-hockey, there always is an older man who   frequently and intentionally plays the ball out of the field. In   my opinion this is very childish, because we play for fun only."
3010	sadness	"I was together with my family one night, a few days after my   father had died, during that conversation I expressed my   displeasure because nobody understands me."
3011	disgust	"Salo, a movie film by Pasolini. People were misused and tortured   for the fun of a few elder Italian authorities, during World War   II."
3012	shame	"I was jerking me off in my bedroom, suddenly, my mother came   in. She looked at me and immediately left the room."
3013	fear	"I was walking alone in the street late at night (2.30 am). It was   very quiet. Then a man approached me and said ""Hello""."
3014	anger	"When, late at night, I discovered that they had stolen my bike."
3015	sadness	"a friend, after being free of drugs for half a year, started   using them again.  "
3016	disgust	"In a disco, there was a dirty little chap who punched my bottom."
3017	anger	a friend who comes visiting me unexpectedly asks for coffee   and I refuse to give him this.
3018	sadness	Watching a football game. This remindes me of the time my   father was still alive and we watched football games on TV   together.
3019	disgust	Seeing someone who has bleeding nose.
3020	shame	Asking someone to give me back the money I once lend him because   I needed it myself.
3021	guilt	I tell someone no. In other words I refuse to do   something although I could have helped him.
3022	neutral	I got a good grade for an exam in statistics.
3023	fear	"One night at three o'clock I was followed by a cardriver, who   tried to molest me."
3024	disgust	I read a book about torture. The book described exactly how the   torturing was done.
3025	shame	I made a joke about the rat of a boy. I compared his rat with a   sausage. I told the boy he had a delicious sausage.
3026	guilt	After a courtship of three months I made an end to it. The boy   was very sad about this.
3027	neutral	I had a very pleasant conversation with one of my friends.
3028	fear	I had a dream about my fiancTe leaving me and making an end to   our relation.
3029	anger	My bicycle was demolished.
3030	disgust	A fellow student who seemed very nice later on proved to be a   slimy fellow towards a professor.
3031	shame	My father was very angry with another man in the presence of my   friends.
3032	guilt	I once drank too much alcohol and became very ill. This was in the   presence of my friends.
3033	neutral	This week I was phoned by an old friend with whom I lost contact   a few years ago.
3034	fear	I was raped by a friend.
3035	anger	"Last year I had a friend visiting me for several days. The only   thing he did was sleeping, drinking, taking pills and thinking   only about himself."
3036	sadness	"My father suddenly fell ill. He stayed for 3 months in the   hospital: the last month on intensive care of the Academic   Hospital, then he died."
3037	disgust	"Bisshop Ter Schure intoduced himself on TV to the Dutch Nation.   He spoke as if he was God himself, and didn't discuss the way he   had achieved this position."
3038	shame	After having failed my driving test.
3039	neutral	"I thought that someone was angry with me but, by hindsight, that   didn't appear to be the case, he even liked me."
3040	fear	"Once, late at night, I was biking home and overtook a man. He   said to me ""Hello darling"" I was terrified and imagined the   wildest scenes."
3041	disgust	"I read about or think about environmental pollution, the   armor race, starvation, etc. Then one realizes that mankind is   bad, most important is power and money, at the cost of nature and   mankind."
3042	shame	I imitated a teacher behind his back - walking very silly.
3043	guilt	I told someone that I still had a relationship with a boy   although it was finished already 3 months before. That person   seriously discussed several things relating that issue. Then I   felt very miserable because I had told lies.
3044	neutral	A meeting and a conversation with a woman (somewhat elder than   me) who considers me as her child (she also has one child of her   own). Last two years I lived with her (no relationship).
3045	fear	"As a child I suffered of nightmares. Even since than, I have   never been so anxious and fearful."
3046	anger	"talking with my sister, she often ventilates prejudices,   which my father also adheres."
3047	sadness	"I was in a hopeless situation in a dirty place. No study, no   work, only loneliness."
3048	disgust	"It is very difficult to relate it to a certain event. I am   familiar with the disgust of Sartre (la nausTe), a frequently   occurring cause may be described as ""the self-assured dullness""."
3049	shame	"Recently, I left my bag in the car of someone who picked me up   while hitch-hiking. I spent some effort to find out where he   lived (I succeeded)."
3050	guilt	"In Biarritz (the South of France) I met some English students   who, especially for me, went to Paris and gave me food, while I   didn't have any more money."
3051	neutral	"I passed the driving test already on the first try, although   I felt more and more uncertain as the day came near."
3052	fear	"my father suffered with dizziness. He had to be   hospitalized, because the physician didn't know what was wrong.   Because his stools were black, I thought it could be cancer."
3053	sadness	"it suddenly appeared that our dog was dangerously ill and   probably would die. We had not expected this because he   was always very healthy. Fortunately he survived because we, in turn,   gave him medicines during the night."
3054	guilt	"my father told me that I should help my mother more often,   because she was so busy. And I realized that he was right."
3055	fear	"I lived in a student-house, where you shared the lavatory and   shower with a fellow student. the shower cubicle formed the   connection between both appartments. My neighbour very often was   drunk and aggressive. One night, I was afraid that he would enter   my room."
3056	anger	"I suffer from a disease of my muscles. Therefore, I am only able   to attend lectures for half a day. So, sometimes I miss   obligatory lectures. However, the teachers do not take into   account my disease, and punish me with detention work, resulting in   an overload."
3057	sadness	"I suffer form a disease of my muscles. However, I cannot talk   about it and my feelings, the consequence with my parents. They   try to repress it."
3058	shame	"Going out for dinner, or during one ice-cream and four spoons."
3059	guilt	I borrowed a piece of music of someone and I always forgot to   give it back. That person wrote me a letter asking me to give it   back. I did so and I told him an idle story why I kept it for so   long.
3060	fear	armed robbers broke into our house at night.
3061	anger	a pick-pocket robbed me of my money (K20) while I  was   buying bathing soap.
3062	disgust	my friend who was drunk insulted me in public for no reason at   all.
3063	shame	I tried to steal a book from the bookshop and was caught.
3064	guilt	I was caught with another man's wife.  I had taken the   opportuinty as this man was abroad but he returned that night.
3065	fear	"I had gone for a boxing tournament which ended at 2 o'clock   in the morning.  I was alone on my way back, and I could hear the   barking of the dogs, the nocturnal animals and the sound of my       own footsteps.  There had been a rumour  circulating that there   were ghosts in that area."
3066	anger	"In 1983 a sadist provoked my sister in my presence.  He tried   to force my sister into accompanying him to his place, but my   sister did not agree and so she was kicked and she fell down.    There was a fight."
3067	sadness	"my father passed away in 1978.  I was left alone with my   mother who was very sick so I had to go and live with my aunt, who   is very short tempered, till my mother was discharged from the   hospital."
3068	guilt	I broke my friend's badminton racket and she kept quiet about it.
3069	neutral	"""Boy, you have been admitted to the medicine school and your   uncle is coming back fron Canada next week,"" my father told me   and it was a happy moment."
3070	fear	I was in form five at the boarding school and my friends and I   had gone drinknig beer in the nearby village.  And we were caught   red handed there by a form master.
3071	anger	my mother quarrelled with my aunt over me.
3072	disgust	"I found out accidentaly that while my uncle was away in Canada, my   aunt had been bedding a young man on a regular basis."
3073	shame	It was during a school holiday - I was found necking a girl in my   room by my father.
3074	neutral	"I won the first prize at the science fair, the first of the kind   at school and I was only in form II then.  "
3075	fear	A close relative of mine died in a serious car accident.  I was   one of the first two people to see the corpse and I had to do it.    Before going in to see it I was afraid as it was the first time   that I was seeing a corpse.
3076	sadness	"a close relative of mine passed away, it was the first time   that someone so close to me had died."
3077	disgust	A person whom I thought to be honest took and spend the little   money that I had and I had no way of getting any money in the   few following months.
3078	shame	"While watching a religious film, I got very excited and made a   number of comments which were reproached to me by an elderly   person who respected me."
3079	guilt	I beat up a female friend after I heard the defamatory stories that   she had been telling.  I was later called to explain my   behaviour.
3080	anger	some seniors tried to scold and insult some juniors on   account of what the juniors were supposed to have said at   secondary school.
3081	sadness	"an uncle of mine, who was close to me, passed away after   having had a stroke, before his first daughter could be named."
3082	shame	I could not hold my bladder while making a telephone call   and ended up wetting myself.
3083	guilt	I was made to feel responsible for the emotional state a friend of   mine was in.
3084	sadness	My fiancT left me for my best friend.
3085	disgust	People who discriminate other people disgust me.
3086	shame	"On New Years eve I drank too much alcohol, so much that I had to   vomit in the presence of other people."
3087	guilt	I have cut loose from my father a few years ago. I know he is   very sad about this.
3088	neutral	A recurrent lovesickness.
3089	sadness	The dying of a close member of the family.
3090	disgust	"Seeing maltreated, dead animals."
3091	shame	A much older man took advantage of me during my childhood (four   to eight years of age).
3092	guilt	"my friend needed my help very much and I, at that moment, made   an end to our relationship."
3093	neutral	I passed a very important exam.
3094	fear	a man rang the doorbell and wanted to enter the house with   violence. I was alone at home that moment.
3095	anger	"A friend came to visit me late one night. He promised to stay   only a quarter of an hour, but he stayed 5 hours !! He didn't   leave and I was very angry."
3096	sadness	"I had to terminate a training because I wasn't suited for it. I   was very sad about this, because I very much wanted to finish   that training."
3097	shame	I tried to swindle a jeweller because my watch was broken and I   wanted to have it repaired it was a pity but they detected it.
3098	guilt	"Someone had to do a lot of efforts to make something work. With   my help he would have finished much sooner, but I wasn't in the   mood to help him."
3099	neutral	I went to visit friends and it was very companionable.
3100	fear	"I wanted to get in contact with a girl I loved, but I was afraid   she would refuse me."
3101	anger	During military service a superior reproached me unjustly. This   led to friction in a lot of situations.
3102	sadness	Disappointed love. The girl made an end to our relationship while   I thought she was in love with me.
3103	disgust	During military service I heard the story of someone who tried to   commit suicide and as a result of this got a week custody.
3104	shame	I thought of myself as being clumsy I made love for the   first time with a girl.
3105	guilt	A friend of mine had a bicycle-accident because I pulled at his   handlebar.
3106	neutral	Sitting alone in a quiet room concentrating on things happening   around me which pleases me.
3107	fear	"Sitting alone in a quiet room, concetrating on things happening   around you. Thoughts come into my mind which make me afraid."
3108	anger	a teacher tells a story which isn't true. It only reflects   his way of interpreting reality.
3109	sadness	I have high expectations for my future but if I pursue the   subject in this manner I will not attain this.
3110	disgust	I heard a broadcasting programme about parapsychology. The people   in this programme used very difficult words which I couldn't   understand. They acted exaggerated without showing any feeling.
3111	shame	A girl asked me why I didn't dance. I told her I was ashamed to   dance. I felt myself ashamed having to tell her this.
3112	guilt	I saved up money for a good purpose. As I also have to organise a   party I am afraid there will rest only a little money for the   good purpose I feel guilty about this.
3113	fear	During a football game I made an offence towards an acquaintance.   Later on this acquaintance also tackeled me and the game became   very rude.
3114	anger	I work at a petrol station. there is a foreigner who wants   petrol my collegues treat him very impolite.
3115	sadness	"An uncle of mine who just retired, having worked hard all his   life, got a cerebral hemorrhage."
3116	disgust	A student who lives in the same house where I live is an alcoholic. He   tries to manipulate other people with his money he has drunk   too much.
3117	shame	I went to a disco with a friend I started behaving badly   embarrassing him without reason.
3118	guilt	"I talked to another student about the notes she got last   semester, not knowing that she got a lot of bad grades."
3119	neutral	I got my drivers licence.
3120	fear	I stayed alone in a house in Great Brittain and there was a   lot of rumour in the newspaper about a murderer still being free.
3121	sadness	my mother was proved to suffer from a very serious disease.
3122	disgust	The stories about my aunt who was beaten and humiliated by my   uncle.
3123	shame	"I omitted to do a favor to a friend, while he was very much in   need for help."
3124	guilt	I had a little accident with my boss'car.
3125	neutral	Every year during carnival I am very neutralful I have an intense   feeling of happiness then.
3126	fear	The only event I can remember is having a nightmare I was   very young (3 years old) I dreamt about a machine which was going   to crush me.
3127	anger	I am usually angry at myself. This happens often. For instace   I want to pet without falling in love and it soon proves   that I have fallen in love with him.
3128	disgust	There is a person whom I disgust. Evrey time I see her I get this   terrible feeling I disgust her whole appearance.
3129	shame	I am angry at someone without a good reason. Later on it   proves that he didn't do anything wrong.
3130	guilt	My mother always evokes feelings of guilt in me. For instance   I miss the last bus I know she will be concerned for me and   stay awake till I arrive.
3131	neutral	I came again in contact with a girl I liked very much. And   most important she also liked me.
3132	sadness	my father had a cerebral hemorrhage.
3133	shame	During a party I overheard a conversation about china. I   wanted to give my opinion one of the people came out to be Chinese   and his opinion was right of course.
3134	neutral	an old schoolfriend phoned me to arrange an appointment to   talk about old memories. I hadn't seen him for 8 years.
3135	fear	Standing in a crowed shop or in a closed room with too much   people in it. This gives me a fearful experience.
3136	disgust	"my parents behave very ""witty"" towards me, they make insipid   jokes about which they laugh. Or my mother who treats me like a   little child."
3137	shame	Making an unexpected talk with a professor in the canteen. This   made me shy.
3138	guilt	"Flirting with other girls while I already had a very good   relationship. there are problems in my relationship, the   flirting increases as does the feeling of guilt."
3139	fear	"I lived alone in a repulsive area in the city of Rotterdam. I was   annoyed, heard a lot of Burglary and assaults. Especially in the evening   and the night I frequently felt anxious."
3140	anger	Being treated unfairly and being hurt by someone I love.
3141	sadness	"I finished a relation after four years, leading to much   sorrow for the other one and myself (""although it was the best   solution"")."
3142	disgust	"Every time I meet a certain person. We cannot get on well   together, we dislike each other."
3143	shame	coming up for trial because of shop lifting.
3144	guilt	Being catched stealing.
3145	neutral	I fell over head and ears in love with someone who appeared to be   in love with me. it made me so happy that I could hardly sleep   and eat for one week.
3146	fear	One night I had to bike home all alone after a party. Then I   found out that I was pursued by a man in a car.
3147	anger	"I had a quarrel with my father, because I was of the opinion that   he decided in an authoritarian way which TV program we should   watch. I became very angry and started throwing things through   the room."
3148	shame	"I was catched when, as a little girl, I played tricks. I was very   startled then and wet my pants."
3149	guilt	"I was of the opinion that 12.00 pm was too early to be back at   home after going out, so I stayed away longer, knowing that my   mother would be worried."
3150	neutral	I was called and invited to have a talk about a job I wanted to have.
3151	fear	Once late at night (around midnight) a person asked me to give   him a lift. He suddenly tried to attack me but I could escape.   After this he followed me for a little while.
3152	anger	There was a lot of irritation between me and a person who lives   in the same house where I live. Suddenly it became too much for me and I   accused him of several things.
3153	sadness	The end of a relationship (after 4 years) by doing this I hurt   the other person very much.
3154	disgust	I saw a terrible accident in which the driver of a motor was   thrown through the frontwindow of a car. His face was completely   away.
3155	shame	I am troubled by hair growing in my neck. I was troubled by this   for a long time and was much ashamed someone brought his/her   hands close to my face.
3156	neutral	a friend of me came for an unexpected visit.
3157	fear	I thought the house was on fire at night.
3158	anger	I was at an official meeting I asked a question to a person.   His response was not directed at me but at the chairman.
3159	sadness	the mother of a good friend of mine died.
3160	disgust	A teacher was very blunt in his relation to a child so that the   child was very upset arriving at home.
3161	shame	I was very angry at someone.
3162	guilt	That I didn't take the time to make an appointment with someone.
3163	neutral	After I saw my family and good friends back after staying one   year in a foreign country. 
3164	fear	a good friend of mine behaved in a very cool manner to me   for a very long time.
3165	anger	I was in the library of medical psychology and walked into the   wrong direction. A man who came out of a room threated me very   denigrating and I became very angry in a resisting manner.
3166	sadness	A good friend of mine died. During the funeral I felt an intense   feeling of sadness.
3167	disgust	an uncle of mine who is very ill started to cough wich   sounded very dirty. (He can't help it of course).
3168	shame	At Christmas night there was a good movie on television which I   wanted to see for years. I was whining about it till someone told   me it was very childish. Then I felt shame.
3169	guilt	A good friend of mine who is at the moment in a foreign country.   I didn't write her for several months and now I feel guilty.
3170	neutral	I go out with my friend with enough money and good sense to   our favorite dancing.
3171	fear	going out I am threatened regularly by two punk-girls.
3172	anger	A friend started to shout at me. He called me an old frump.
3173	disgust	My father is someone I disgust. So he comes close to me   a feeling of disgust overwhelms me. I stay a week-end at my   parent's place I will remember it for long time.
3174	shame	After a party in which I made love with a boy in public. Later on   I heard that others were talking about me and called me a slut.
3175	guilt	"I got associated with a boy one year ago, I neglected my   best friend. the relation with this boy finished she behaved   very easy-going towards me. I felt guilty then."
3176	neutral	I made the winning goal during a very important football   game.
3177	fear	A terrible cloud-burst started we were camping in a tent on   a great bald field.
3178	anger	"Seeing for the first time pictures about the so called   ""treatment"" of Jewish people in Nazi-Germany during World War II."
3179	sadness	The death of my mother-in-law after a long sick-bed. at the   moment of dying I was with her.
3180	disgust	I was looking at a one-man show on television. He told very   disgusting things so that I started to be disgusted with it.   (Later on it proved that this was his intention).
3181	shame	I was drinking a glass of wine and eating something there   suddenly appeared pictures about the famine in some parts of   Africa.
3182	neutral	it appeared that I was not pregnant I was several weeks   overtime.
3183	fear	The same situation as with sadness. I was afraid about what my   parents would further do to distroy my relationship.
3184	anger	Once again my parents distroyed a relationship.
3185	sadness	I had this feeling my parents distroyed a relationship with   a boy because they thought he was bad and irresponsible.
3186	disgust	After the accident which I described in SHAME. I came to myself   and saw how terrible everything looked like. I disgusted myself   and everything I saw.
3187	disgust	I heard part of a conversation in which one talked very low about   women.
3188	shame	"In an important situation for me, my father behaved inadequately."
3189	guilt	I took the car of someone without saying it to him.
3190	fear	a good friend of me told me one evening that she didn't want   to live anymore.
3191	anger	"I felt anger at the end of a telephone call, a good friend   told me that she would go to travel next year with another good   friend. We couldn't talk this out."
3192	sadness	I was very sad I had to leave persons with whom I had a very   intense relationship I also had to leave the environment which   was part of this.
3193	disgust	I felt disgust after watching a picture on television about   torturing political prisoners in India (this happened in the   India of Indira Ghandi).
3194	shame	I made a very insulting remark against a person whom I care for   very much. This event was caused by a third person who didn't   like the person I insulted.
3195	guilt	I felt guilt towards my mother I went to live on rooms in   Nijmegen where I study.
3196	fear	I walk through streets late at night. This is because I and   my friends were attacked one night without any reason for it.
3197	disgust	I feel disgust hearing or seeing other people being treated   inhumanely. For example torturing in chili.
3198	shame	In my opinion guilt is a feeling which goes together with shame.   Here then I refer to the situation of guilt.
3199	neutral	The day I heard that I passed the high school exam.
3200	fear	"I was living in rooms in a very lonely, quiet neigbourhood.   During the night it was very silent and this frightened me. The   fact of being alone in that house frightened me."
3201	anger	We had to move to a very different city because the company where   my father worked also moved to that place. It was very difficult   for me to make new friends than.
3202	sadness	A very close friend of mine died. I read it in the newspaper. I   didn't know what to do and thought about it the whole day.
3203	disgust	A girl who also hires a room in the house where I live always   tries to make a quarrel with everyone available she disgusts me.
3204	shame	A teacher spent a lot of time helping me without wanting to be   paid for it. For the exam I didn't got a good grade and I felt   ashamed.
3205	guilt	I knew I had to take an exam very soon but yet I couldn't start   studying. I also knew it was very imprtant to succeed the exam   this time.
3206	neutral	"Christmas holiday started, I felt very neutralful I   finished my last exam."
3207	fear	I was raped once I went through a dark alley at the back of   our house. The man pushed me in the bushes. I fought back and   succeeded to escape.
3208	sadness	my gradmother died.  I felt very sad then ... The feeling   started to be worse after a while.
3209	disgust	I ate a rotten apple.
3210	shame	I didn't meet an appointment I had made. The person phoned   me but I thought of something (I told I was ill) so that I didn't   have to go.
3211	fear	I slept for the first time all alone in the house where I   live now. A man phoned me at 2.00 am. He wanted something from   me. I was afraid.
3212	sadness	"I hadn't been at my parent's place for a long time. I went to   visit them I had high expectations, but I was there it was   very different from what I expected."
3213	disgust	I read a story in the newspaper about butchers treating their   animals very badly. They disgusted me.
3214	shame	"I was eating in a very nice restaurant, the servant asked   whether I liked the food I told him that I liked it but that   there was one thing which wasn't so good. The servant than worked   very hard to make it good."
3215	guilt	A few weeks ago I thought about an exam I had to take soon. I   remembered this just before I had to go to sleep. I felt guilt   because at the beginning of the year I planned to succeed.
3216	neutral	During my high school time I succeeded to play a concert of   Mozart on the piano I gave my first performance I succeeded   to play it very well.
3217	fear	"a car ran into me. The moment that I felt on the street I   thought ""This is my end, I am going to die""."
3218	anger	our cat was killed in a car-accident I was very angry at the   driver of the car because he didn't take enough care.
3219	sadness	"There is a boy who I love very much. I asked him to have dinner   with me, but he refused I don't know why he didn't go with me,   but I felt very lonely."
3220	disgust	I saw a dog who was eating excrements.
3221	shame	During my Highschool time I was chairman of the student's   comitee. In this function I once had to make a speech to a large   audience and I was very nervous. After three sentences I forgot   my text.
3222	guilt	"During a holiday in East-Germany I got aquainted with a boy who   lived there. We started writing, but I only wrote once. I felt   ashamed because I probably was one of his sparse contacts with   western Europe."
3223	neutral	I saw a good friend again after not having seen her for a   long time.
3224	fear	I slipped on a glazed frost road and a car almost ran into   me.
3225	anger	people without my permission pry in my belongings and take   things out of it.
3226	sadness	I noticed that my parents were not in such a prosperity as   most people in my surroundings.
3227	disgust	Seeing a pornographic movie in which animals were used.
3228	shame	I went for the first time in my life to a nudist-beach.
3229	guilt	I was caught sneaking sweets.
3230	neutral	I went to visit a friend in the hospital. She had to undergo   an operation for rupture. I was glad to hear that the operation   succeeded and that she was relieved of her pain.
3231	fear	"I had an appointment with a good friend. He came 3 hours later   than we agreed upon. During the last hour of waiting I was afraid   something might had happened, because usally he is in time."
3232	anger	I worked together with another student on a computer-assignment.   She didn't do her best and didn't prepare herself for it. She   expected me to explain it to her.
3233	sadness	I had a quarrel with a good friend about the fact that I didn't   pay her a visit she expected me to come. Hereafter I was   very sad because it became a real quarrel.
3234	disgust	I was hitch-hiking a man stopped and gave me a lift to   Nijmegen. During the ride he asked me whether I was in for fun.   The man was fat and tatooed.
3235	shame	I forgot something I agreed upon with a good friend.
3236	guilt	"I became very angry with my friend because he didn't do shopping,   while we agreed on him doing this. My being angry was proved to be   without reason and I felt guilty about it."
3237	fear	I was 12 years old I frequently was pursued by others and   got sound thrashes.
3238	disgust	once again I drank too much and felt very rotten the morning   after.
3239	guilt	"having a relationship, I made love with another girl."
3240	neutral	the girl with whom I am in love smiles at me.
3241	fear	biking and I felt very bad (problems with heart and   respiration).
3242	anger	"a discussion resulted in an insult, which in my opinion, was   not justified."
3243	sadness	I realized that it did not make much sense to start a   relationship with a girl who was not very constructive to   establish a firm relationship.
3244	disgust	I had to finish those big amounts of homework in time.
3245	shame	"I gave water to the plants of a friend. Then one plant fell   over, and a little statue broke. I, of course, had to tell him   everything."
3246	guilt	I had broken a piece of glass of the refrigerator by putting   a hot pan in it.
3247	anger	"My father called me (behind my mother's back) and told me that my   mother disapproved my behavior in the weekend. However, he didn't   tell me the details and left me with unanswered questions."
3248	disgust	"A scene in a film in which one man repressed another one. By   concidence, their position was reversed. The other man was   repressed in an identical way as he did before."
3249	shame	I do not succeed in making myself clear to other people.   they do not understand what I say.
3250	guilt	After the death of a girl who I disliked.
3251	fear	"I was very startled when, at night at 2.00 am, a boy approached   me and yelled ""I fuck you"", then however he stopped and laughed at   me."
3252	anger	someone does not listen to me after having asked me to   repeat what I said. This happened more than one time with the   same person.
3253	sadness	I felt very sad I heard that a friend had committed suicide.
3254	disgust	One night I saw a man being knocked down by two other men. The   victim was kicked against his head.
3255	guilt	I cancelled an appointment with an idle story. Afterwards   it appeared that the person had looked forward to it and reserved   time for it.
3256	neutral	"For a few days I felt very miserable, distressed and listless,   with crying fits. this was over I felt very happy, although   there was no special reason."
3257	fear	"I was testing my new roller skates in the street, suddenly a dog   ran barking in my direction, very threatening. I was very   startled and terribly upset."
3258	sadness	Recently I felt very sad without any reason. It lasted for a few   days. There was nothing I liked in that period.
3259	anger	Someone told me that he would stay at my home for one night.   Therefore I made big efforts to make everything ok (food). One day   before he cancelled the appointment because he had to go to   church with his parents.
3260	sadness	We had to take our cat to the vet for mercy killing (an   injection).
3261	disgust	"people are eating unsavoury (smacking, belching, speaking   with food in their mouth, etc.)."
3262	guilt	I made an appointment to pick up someone. However I arrived   too late and she had to wait a quarter of an hour.
3263	neutral	One night I had a very good conversation with two friends. I then   realized how worthy they were for me and how happy I was to   have them as friends.
3264	fear	In the morning just before going to the dentist.
3265	disgust	I made love with someone who I didn't really love. Sometimes   I even considered him unlikable.
3266	guilt	I realized that I avoided two good friends with whom I   always shared toys and sorrows. I made up idle stories to avoid   telling them what happened to me.
3267	fear	"going out in the weekend I have to bike 5 kilometers through   lonely and dark polders, then I always have terrifying fantasies."
3268	anger	"I made an appointment with a friend to drink coffee togehter.   However, for the third time in that week she arrived an hour too   late."
3269	sadness	My dear hamster (called Hannes) died at the age of 2 and 1/2 years.   His shape forced me to mercy killing (an injection).
3270	disgust	I read a newspaper report that a little boy was forced to look   while his sister was raped.
3271	shame	We had made an appointment to complete together a piece of work.   It appeared that I was the only one who hadn't prepared anything.
3272	guilt	"I call my mother at least once a week. However last week I   completely forgot. This morning she called me, she thought I felt   ill."
3273	fear	I had to call someone and make an appointment for a conversation.   I was very afraid to fail.
3274	anger	"When, after having cleaned up the kitchen, two hours later I saw   that there was a big mess. It irritated me very much."
3275	sadness	One night I was called and told that the father of a close friend   died. I visited my friend at home and attending the   funeral I felt very sad.
3276	disgust	I cannot remember exactly such a situation. But I know that   once I went to a very dirty lavatory and that disgusted me.
3277	guilt	"I once torn the inner tube of a bike, that was not mine. Then I   saw it was a brand new one. I felt very guilty then."
3278	neutral	"I found out that the girl, with whom I was in love, loved me   too."
3279	fear	"my mother threatened me with thrushing me of the stairs,   I once more should make a comment."
3280	sadness	My mother unjustly became very angry with me and sent me to my   room while my father explained that the way she saw things was   not correct. I had done things with the best intentions.
3281	disgust	My mother was very angry with my little sister and told her to   put her hands on the table in order to beat her hands up. She   forced by means of her power.
3282	shame	"A friend came for dinner with me at home. His parents are   ordinary people. My mother, however, used the very expensive   porcelain dinner-service and the silver cutlery. I felt very   ashamed."
3283	neutral	Once a week I work as a volunteer in a biologic garden. this work   in the garden and the contact with other volunteers filled me   with neutral. They also gave me support after I failed passing my   driver's test.
3284	fear	My friend and I planned to search for old documents and utensils   in the cellar. It was very late at night we arrived in the   cellar. He indicated the place where the police (40 years ago) found   two dead bodies. I got very scared he told me this story.
3285	fear	"I went up the stairs in a high, dark house full of shadows,   passed a door and had the feeling that someone or something was   behind me, although I knew I was alone."
3286	anger	"A friend told me it would be better for me not to be on familiar   terms with another friend, although, in my opinion he had no   reason to say such things. He only said so hoping that I   would search support from him (that, however, was not necessary)."
3287	sadness	"I had a good relationship with two friends. Once without reason,   they clearly showed that they thought I was naive, dull and   unable to take care for myself, while I expostulated that I could   manage things."
3288	disgust	"I see that some people remain cold and egoistic with regard   to close friends, even in situations that those friends need   them."
3289	shame	"I state things with great positiveness and try to convince   others, and it appears that my statement is not right."
3290	guilt	"A certain friend evokes positive feelings, I am with him but   negative feelings he is not present. I feel the need to   express those negative feelings. However, I speak about him,   I always think: Why do I like this, he does not deserve this, but   still I do so."
3291	neutral	"A few days ago, I hitch-hiked to Arnhems with a friend.   Everything went well: they picked us up very quickly, the sun was   shining, I was feeling free and, for the first time after long   time, happy. I really had the feeling that I was living at full   speed."
3292	anger	"I had made an appointment with three friends. We had to go out   together. I arrived at the place, the other persons weren't   there. I became very angry because I thought they were gone   without me. That, however, didn't appear to be the case."
3293	shame	I was taking a shower in a cubicle in France. Then I discovered   that a few children were loking at me from the adjacent cubicle.
3294	guilt	"I know that a certain person feels very lonely, and that she   always looks forward to seeing me. However, often I am too   busy to visit her, then I feel guilty."
3295	neutral	"A close relative of mine underwent a difficult operation, and everything   turned out fine."
3296	fear	I get into the tube or the train without paying for the   ticket.
3297	sadness	I failed the entrance exam to IMEC.
3298	disgust	I saw someone eating live worms.
3299	shame	I was a child my parents caught me with a pornographic   magazine.
3300	guilt	[ I can not remember anything in particular.  What I can remember   is feelings of having done or said something which then had   negative consequences.]
3301	neutral	they told me that I had got a study grant.
3302	shame	I wore a grotesque figure hanging down my back.
3303	guilt	Because I had not studied.
3304	neutral	my father was saved from a severe work accident.
3305	fear	I was a child I hid under the sheets out of fear of   darkness.
3306	anger	I first saw a person begging.
3307	sadness	my basket ball team lost the qualification at a final.
3308	disgust	I see rotten meat.
3309	shame	a person whom I do not want to see is continously present.
3310	guilt	I failed an exam I thought I could pass easily.
3311	anger	"We hitch hiked our way back from a town rather drunk.  We were   dropped in another town which was unknown to us.  I needed to   urinate, so I did it on a wall which turned out to belong to the   military headquarters.  They arrested me and made me pay a fine   of 500 pts.  We had to go home on foot (6 km) since it was too   late for anyone to give us a lift."
3312	sadness	"I was to meet a girl in a discotheque.  She was very pretty and I   was very happy.  But she did not turn up.  Thank God, there were   some other friends there and I was able to have a more or less   good time."
3313	guilt	"I went to a pub with a group of friends (not very close) and   I was with one girl most of the time, while the other girls in the   group wanted to be with me.  They stopped talking to the girl I   was with."
3314	neutral	The day some friends of mine and I decided to go to Galicia on   holiday.
3315	fear	"Before an exam which I, finally did not take."
3316	anger	At home they lost three pieces of my puzzle.
3317	sadness	I had an argument with a friend.
3318	disgust	I am dirty because I have not had a shower for a few days.
3319	shame	Once I did not have enough money to pay for a coffee.
3320	guilt	After an argument with a friend of mine.
3321	fear	Before taking an exam.
3322	anger	My family told me to leave if I was not willing to accept the   conditions they imposed on me.
3323	sadness	A friend of mine called me I was not at home.  I phoned her   back to know what she wanted and she told me that she had dialled   the wrong number.
3324	disgust	I had to change a baby's clothes for the first time.
3325	shame	I fell outside the door of my house.
3326	guilt	My younger sister was almost run over by a lorry.
3327	fear	I almost fell down from some rocks because I had been acting   foolishly and playing dangerously.
3328	anger	Once I saw some children hunting a cat to death.
3329	sadness	The death of a friend.
3330	disgust	I saw a scene on T.V where a castration was shown.
3331	shame	Once I answered my father rudely.
3332	fear	I was ten I got shut in the school with a friend.  I had to   jump out of a window and cross a beam 10 metres high.
3333	anger	I was told that a boy did not want to be my friend without   any apparent reason.
3334	sadness	I learnt that a boy I liked had been with a girl for three   years.
3335	shame	I realized that I had a hole in my trousers after having gone   for a walk.
3336	neutral	"I saw my 16 year old sister at home after having waited for   her all night, not knowing where she was."
3337	fear	While I was waiting for them to give me the marks of the most   difficult subject this year.
3338	anger	"I had an argument with my mother because I criticized the rules   she imposes at home, which are too rigid and arbitrary for me."
3339	disgust	On seeing a scene of an accident in a magazine.
3340	shame	A few days back I had to ask a professor a ridiculous question   because I had lost at a game of cards and had to pay a forfeit.
3341	guilt	I shouted at my mother she was nervous and depressed.
3342	fear	"I saw a TV program on the North American military plan   called ""The startwar""."
3343	anger	I felt angry I saw on T.V the last slaughter of negroes in   South Africa.
3344	sadness	I saw the pictures of the draught in Etiopia.
3345	disgust	Whenever I see an alcoholic.
3346	guilt	I failed an exam for which I knew that I had not studied   hard enough.
3347	neutral	The day the Real Madrid team of basket ball qualified for the   final at Athens.
3348	fear	The last time I was face to face with with the monstrous dog   which lives in my street.
3349	anger	"During a trivial (friendly) discussion, one of the participants   made an intervention which made me feel uncomfortable."
3350	sadness	I heard the last regulation of the socialist govrenment   concerning pensions.
3351	disgust	I got to know the details if the famine in East Africa.
3352	shame	"The last time I had to phone the Registry, after having called   them so many times in the last few days."
3353	neutral	I passed an important exam.
3354	fear	"In a rather important exam, they caught me red handed   copying."
3355	anger	"my father addressed me directly and maliciously, thus   including me in the ""family war""."
3356	sadness	my parents got divorced.
3357	disgust	"I was a child, one day while playing, I fell up to my waist   in mud."
3358	shame	I was dismissed from a job after having been accused of theft.
3359	guilt	"I was with a girl who seemed to love me, while I was with   her just to go to bed with her."
3360	neutral	I passed an exam which I had failed last year.
3361	fear	I go out alone at night.
3362	anger	A murder.
3363	sadness	I failed two subjects last year.
3364	disgust	I see people who have no sentiments.
3365	shame	"I think that I am rather shy and do not mix with people as I   would have liked to, out of shyness."
3366	guilt	I triffled with other people.
3367	neutral	I was told that I could take a week off and go for a trip   with my friends.
3368	fear	Every time I went home with my school report.
3369	sadness	I learned that two of my friends had had a serious car accident.
3370	disgust	A young man was insulting and humiliating a drunken man.
3371	shame	My aunt phoned me to ask me why I had refused the her invitation   to dinner at her home on the New Year's Eve.
3372	guilt	"I was with a girl one night and then did not call her again,   although she had asked me to do so."
3373	neutral	I saw that I had passed an exam.  It was the last chance and   there was a lot at stake.
3374	fear	"On a trip to Santander we wanted to stop at a curve because a   friend was sick, and the car skidded of the gravel."
3375	anger	My cousins were playing at home and one of them broke a decorative   object which was very precious to me.
3376	sadness	All my friends arranged to go for an afternoon snack and they did   not tell me.  They told me that they did not have my phone number   but I do not think that this was true.
3377	disgust	I saw a film where a black was rapeing a girl while another one was   filming it for a pornographic movie.
3378	shame	I was swimming in the sea and a wave took the top part of my   bikini away.
3379	guilt	I was looking after a child and she fell down because I was not   paying her much attention.  One side of her face got bruised.
3380	fear	"Fights that I see in the middle of the street, robberies, fear of   darkness going home."
3381	sadness	[ Depressions.]
3382	disgust	"Some people whom I do not like at all, and one of the reasons is   their physical appearance."
3383	guilt	Some of my friends had an argument.  I had earlier phoned one   of them and that may have influenced him to argue.
3384	neutral	I met a very close friend of mine after one year of   separation.
3385	fear	There was an earthquake for several minutes and I was on the   eight floor.
3386	anger	An argument among several friends because of the irrational   behavior of one of them who fell out with us for no reason and   said that we were to blame.
3387	disgust	Pictures of Nazi extermination camps on a T.V program.
3388	shame	Equivocal situation filling a security questionnaire on   entering a government building with several people there.
3389	guilt	I left a boy with whom I was going around without giving him any   explanations.
3390	neutral	my sister was born.
3391	fear	they tried to rob me.
3392	anger	I failed an exam unfairly.
3393	disgust	I see dead dogs on the road.
3394	shame	I went to see the doctor and had to take my clothes off so   that he could examine me.
3395	guilt	my parents quarelled over something I had done and which was   wrong.
3396	neutral	my little sister was born.
3397	fear	"I was attending an authorized demonstrationand the police   rushed brutally at the demonstrators, without any warning."
3398	sadness	"The death of a relative, friend, or someone I esteem."
3399	disgust	I saw a very disagreable scene.
3400	shame	I had to represent my boss at a meeting.
3401	guilt	I inadvertantly made some close friends and relatives feel   bad.
3402	neutral	I passed an exam.
3403	fear	they threatened me with a knife to take my money.
3404	anger	I failed an exam I thought I would pass.
3405	sadness	my dog died.
3406	disgust	I saw an accident where the man lost his head.
3407	shame	I tripped while getting on a bus.
3408	guilt	I hurt a person's feelings.
3409	fear	two drug addicts tried to take away my money.
3410	disgust	a person saw that I was accused of something I had not done   and did not do anything to defend me.
3411	shame	inadvertantly I found myself in the ladies room.
3412	guilt	I broke something and a friend of mine was blamed.
3413	neutral	I got my driving licence after they had frightened me with it's   difficulty.
3414	fear	"I had to walk over three kms through a field which had wild bulls,   because my car had broken down."
3415	anger	"I saw a man hitting a child of 2 years without any consideration,   simply because the child had been leaning against a window."
3416	sadness	A friend of mine who was driving a car ahead of me died in a   car accident.
3417	disgust	I had to dissect a live mouse at school.
3418	shame	I was a child I had to recite a poem in a show at the end of   the term.
3419	guilt	"I saw a program on Ethiopia on T.V, a fews hours earlier I   had thrown away some clothes and food."
3420	neutral	I saw that the mark I had obtained in an exam was a good   one.
3421	fear	We were in the country and I walked away from the others one   night.  Suddenly something moved sharply in front of me and I was   not able to see what it was.
3422	anger	"I was young, I became very angry as I was not allowed to   stay up all night for the fair in my town."
3423	sadness	summer is over and I have to leave the town where I spend my   holidays.
3424	disgust	I saw several people washing their car with water from a   drain.
3425	shame	I inadvertantly entered the ladies room and met some girls   on my way out.
3426	guilt	I was entrusted with an object and while using it I handled it   carelessly and it broke.
3427	neutral	"I learned, after the ecography, that my mother was expecting a   baby girl.  That was what I wanted."
3428	fear	"One night, walking along a park, I began to think that some   roughnecks would appear suddenly with knives and things like   that."
3429	anger	I had an exam and I had it well prepared.  I did the first part   very well but did not know the second part.
3430	sadness	my parents did not let me go on a study tour.
3431	disgust	"One day I was going through the street door of my house, a   man asked me for a doctor.  He then showed me his genitals and   asked me to cure him myself."
3432	neutral	An invitation to spend 5 days at the seaside with all expenses   paid.
3433	fear	A film on zombies.
3434	disgust	"after a storm in the country, I left my shelter and saw a   big, fat, slimy green toad by my side."
3435	shame	a friend from whom I preferred to hide my private life   discovered that I had relations with a man.
3436	fear	"I was walking down the street, some boys showed me a knife   and stole all my money."
3437	anger	"they threw my holder down on the floor, with all my notes for   an exam inside it and they got all mixed up."
3438	sadness	my mother was operated.
3439	disgust	I see pornographic films.
3440	shame	One day I got on the bus without any money or season ticket and   the driver threw me out.
3441	guilt	a friend of mine was beaten for what was my fault.
3442	neutral	My father had an operation which lasted for hours.  We were all   very worried but it was successful.
3443	fear	I was walking along a subway I saw a group of louts.  I was   rather afraid because I was alone.
3444	anger	An old woman was violently thrown down the stairs of the tube by   a group of louts.
3445	sadness	"A child, 9 years old, died in a stupid way.  He fell from a place   which was 1 metre high."
3446	disgust	On the road there was a dead animal with its entrails showing and   its skull crushed.
3447	shame	We were discussing a subject ( I knew very little about it) and I   was holding my ground.  They showed me that I was wrong.
3448	guilt	"I could have passed the last exam of the public competition, but   I failed as I had not studied."
3449	sadness	"I phoned two friends and was not able to arrange a meeting with   either of them, so I had to change my plans."
3450	fear	"I am alone at night after having read horror stories, and   then I heard unexplainable noises."
3451	anger	A typical family argument.
3452	sadness	The disqualification of two of my mates in the military service.
3453	disgust	The sight of vomit on the street.
3454	shame	criticizing something about a person and then realizing that   the person whom one is talking to is similar.
3455	neutral	I pass an exam.
3456	fear	Continous fear of a nuclear war.
3457	anger	"you kill yourself with work and see the number of slakers   wandering around, doing nothing."
3458	sadness	someone in my family died.
3459	disgust	To loose friends because of them over-estimating themselves.
3460	shame	people next to me play the fool.
3461	guilt	To force someone to do something that suits me.
3462	neutral	"I thought that I was going to fail a subject and so I began to   study for the final exam, then my friend told me that I had   passed it.  That meant that I could go home, as I do not study in   my hometown."
3463	fear	"I was in Sierra Nevada, climbing a peak over 3,000 metres high,   without any light and with many other problems.  I was afraid for   my life."
3464	anger	"I was living in a flat where things did not go very well for me.    Finally, they threw me out and this prejudiced people I esteem a   lot."
3465	sadness	"I read the diary of the girl with whom I was living, it was   about another boy with whom she had been going around some time back."
3466	disgust	The man who threw me out of the flat disgusted me.
3467	shame	"The first time that I caressed a girl, I was about thirteen and   she was eighteen.  I noticed that it did not affect her at all."
3468	guilt	"I was going around with a girl without loving her.  Not only did   I go around with her, but we did many more things.  In the end I   was not very sincere to her."
3469	fear	"I was walking in the countryside alone I came across two   dogs who began barking at me.  I did not know whether they were   tied up or loose, but I was afraid of them approaching me."
3470	anger	"I was angry my sister began to talk nonsense and to laugh at   the way I swept the room.  My anger grew (I tried to control   myself).  After telling her to leave me alone, I vented my anger   on her as she did not obey me."
3471	sadness	My mother was working with a knife and we were all laughing   heartily.  She was not able to control the knife and stuck it   deep into her hand.
3472	disgust	I read a book whose plot and expressions were obscene and in very   bad taste.
3473	shame	"My mother had just been teaching me how to crochet, which is   thought highly improper for a boy in a town.  Just we   finished, a neighbour walked in."
3474	guilt	"It was about midnight and I wanted to go to the countryside (I   was in town) to watch the stars in the sky.  My mother did not   like this, in spite of it I went out for a while.  My mother got   angry."
3475	neutral	A friend of mine suggested that I become a film extra.  The idea   seemed very funny to me and my reaction seemed rather outlandish   to the others.
3476	fear	One day I went to the cinema to see a film in which I was   interested.  On arriving there I saw a long queue (which I had   not expected) and went back home without seeing the film.
3477	anger	"I miss the train and I am late, and I have to wait half an   hour for the next one."
3478	sadness	I knew I had to go out with my mother on some errands.
3479	disgust	I saw in an ice-cream kiosque a cockroach walking through a   cornet.
3480	guilt	Once I had some homework to do and I did not do it.
3481	neutral	"they phoned me from Great-Britain to tell me that I could go   there, if I wished, in Summer."
3482	fear	I was operated on the knee and had to go through rehabilitation.
3483	anger	"In a very important basket-ball match where a lot was at stake, I   played very badly."
3484	sadness	a friend of mine told me that he was going to commit   suicide.
3485	disgust	A TV program on whale-hunting.
3486	shame	Once I said bad things concerning a friend.
3487	guilt	Family discord and uneasiness due to something I did not   communicate on time.
3488	neutral	"I passed my driving test, as it was the fifth time that I   had taken this test."
3489	fear	my mother was robbed in a shop.
3490	anger	I was given an exam which I thought did not measure at all my   ability or my knowledge of the subject.
3491	sadness	"I saw the film ""Johnny got his gun"" which deals with the   consequences of the Vietnam war."
3492	disgust	Some friends and I were having lunch.  Someone said something   funny and one of the guys started laughing and spat his food in a girl's   face.
3493	shame	"I was alone in the bus I tripped and fell, and dropped all   my papers."
3494	fear	"One night, while I was sleeping, I woke up suddenly with the   sensation that there was someone in my room."
3495	sadness	they told me that my grandfather was rather ill.
3496	disgust	I see someone vomitting.
3497	shame	I fell head on in a fountain.
3498	neutral	I came across a friend with whom I had lost touch for a long   time.
3499	fear	"I had decided to propose to the man I liked to make a trip   together.  One day, during breakfast I told him my idea.  I was   afraid of his not accepting it and that the idea would end up as   a failure."
3500	anger	A person I trusted a lot gave me many false explanations to   justify a wrong action.
3501	shame	a professor caught me absent-minded and not paying attention   to what he was saying.
3502	guilt	"One day, I was alone on duty a patient choked while eating.    I ran to her and tried to make her breath, but it was too late."
3503	neutral	"At a party, on New Year's Eve, I met on old friend whom I had not   seen for some time"
3504	fear	Once I failed seven subjects at school and I was terrified to   give my report card to my father.  I left it on the table and went to   bed very early in order to avoid him seeing me.
3505	anger	"When, after drinking a glass of water, I found a cockroach walking   out of the glass."
3506	sadness	"I have a very close friend who lives in another city and we have   been writing to each other for a long time.  The last time I went   to her city, just to see her, I was disappointed to see how great   the distance between us was."
3507	disgust	They asked me to throw the rubbish into a dustbin which had some   awful liquid accumulated at the bottom.
3508	shame	The girl with whom I was going around had been forbidden to be   alone with me in the house.  We paid no attention to this   prohibition but one day her parents appeared and I jumped out of   the window.  They saw me.
3509	guilt	"I was driving a friend's car, and I got close to the pavement to   ask my way and I struck a parked car."
3510	fear	"I stayed alone in the dark at night in the mountain, waiting for   my uncle.  I remember that I took a big stone and it calmed me."
3511	sadness	"[ During a summer holiday a French girl and I had becoe back   home, I felt very sad.]"
3512	disgust	Once I had to clean a lavatory which was obstructed.  It was in a   friend's country house and there was nobody there to help me.
3513	guilt	"I lost my study grant without having attended any exam in   the career I had started, and it was too late to cancel my registration."
3514	neutral	A party I went to last Christmas.
3515	fear	my mother had a nervous illness.
3516	anger	During my last exam.
3517	sadness	I had to come back from my village last Christmas.
3518	disgust	One day I went to see a rather disagreeable film (X).
3519	shame	Once I had to visit a rather special person.
3520	guilt	"Once, I accidentally injured a boy in the eye and he almost lost   it."
3521	neutral	I knew the feelings of a beloved person.
3522	fear	"A fall during a climb, with almost with no previous experience."
3523	anger	"On the occasion of assignment of tasks and responsibilities in   which such an assignment, dispropotionately carried with it high   responsibility and low ability of organisation and resolution."
3524	sadness	"Moving to an unknown place, away from the familiar surroundings   and into a situation of loneliness."
3525	disgust	"I had to sleep in a bed at a hostel, which was full of dirt."
3526	shame	"While shopping, a person close to us created an uncomfortable   situation for those who were with her."
3527	guilt	"Incomprehension and repression towards a child's behaviour,   commonly not accepted, and making the child cry."
3528	fear	In a dark street at 4 o'clock in the night and there was   complete silence.
3529	anger	"they broke the artistic work of several weeks.  Changes were   made and it was broken without permission, they had no right to   do this."
3530	sadness	"the train taking me to my military service left the station,   on the platform remained relatives, projects and goodtimes.  I   had a hard year ahead."
3531	disgust	"A situation of overt unfairness, manipulation of people and its   consequences."
3532	shame	"A children's film in which I played a clown, with spotlights,   cameras and the director who demanded jumps and guffaws."
3533	neutral	I was talking to a friend and he said something which was very   funny.
3534	fear	"I was young I saw a horror film.  Then I went to sleep,   the film came back too my mind and the characters frighteneed my   imagination."
3535	anger	"In a confrontation with a person, he provoked me several times   till I reacted in an angry way.  Fortunately there were no   disastrous consequences."
3536	sadness	I was watching a sad film and it affected me deeply.
3537	disgust	I was reading a book.  It had nothing to do with the book   itself but with the disagreable smell of the pages of the book.
3538	guilt	In an exam I answered the questions rather carelessly and   afterwards I thought that the exam would have been better had I   answered more carefully.
3539	neutral	"I knew that there were, at last, no problems in making a   journey that I had been wanting to make for a long time."
3540	fear	It was more that fear - anguish -that I felt before my last exam.
3541	anger	I had an argument with my best friend and I thought that I   was right and she was not.
3542	sadness	I realized that it was impossible for me to be as free as I   had imagined and that I could not do anythong about it.
3543	disgust	"The first time I saw a pornographic film, all that in practice is   so beautiful but on the screen appered as something mechanical,   irrational, disgusting and dehumanizing."
3544	shame	I stated sharply something I was not very sure of and a few   days later I was shown to be wrong.
3545	guilt	I do or say something inappropriate which hurts people close   to me.
3546	neutral	"a study tour got confirmed, I was happy all the time till      the tour began."
3547	fear	I was walking down a road and suddenly a few dogs appeared at a fence   and started barking angrily.  They were jumping and it seemed   that they would come for me any time.
3548	sadness	We went to visit my mother at the residence.  She was crying and   said that she was about to die.  I believed all her complaints   and continously thought of the possibility of loosing her.
3549	disgust	"My dog had been run over and died near the house.  We had to pick   him up, cold and glassy eyed, to get rid of the corpse."
3550	guilt	In an exam I answered the questions with very little   assurance due to insufficiet preparation.
3551	neutral	"I received my report card in C.O.U.  I was afraid of obtaining   low marks, but they were much higher than expected.  "
3552	sadness	I had failed some subjects in mathematics.
3553	disgust	I was at the table at a French friend's house.  They served me a   big dish with roast cauliflower and sauce.  I had to eat it. 
3554	guilt	"I was alone at home I broke a figure and then mended it.  A   few days later my mother noticed it and asked me about it, I told   her that I had no idea."
3555	neutral	I fell crazily in love with a beautiful girl and she returned   my love.
3556	fear	"I was caught by the police and was kept with a group of   delinquents, which added to my fear of being shut up.  I was   afraid of the people near me and the future consequences."
3557	anger	I was the target of a great many insults and completely   unfair accusations of a large group of people.
3558	sadness	"my best friend died, at the age of 16."
3559	disgust	I entered a brothel and saw two sailors with a young   prostitute who was not older than 18.
3560	guilt	"Having suffered a not very pretty sight, I reacted by uttering   some very cruel and sharp words."
3561	neutral	I came across an old friend whom I had not seen for a very   long time.
3562	fear	I had an accident in which I hurt my eye.  I was afraid of having   injured it badly.
3563	anger	I was accused of something I had not done.
3564	sadness	A close friend died.
3565	disgust	I saw some images of a decapitation in a horror film.
3566	shame	I slipped and fell in to a puddle and people started looking at   me.
3567	guilt	I made another person cry for an unjustified cause.
3568	neutral	I received an unexpected letter from a friend I had met a short   time before.  He sent me a poem and wished me good luck.  I felt   very happy because I had great esteem for that person.
3569	fear	"I was walking with another person a ""gang"" separted us and   pushed me in to a house, hit me in the stomach and the face, then   they left - leaving me bleeding."
3570	anger	"A certain person started to say dreadful things very calmly, I   felt hurt and disgusted."
3571	sadness	A certain person whom I respect and esteem a lot pays me no   attention.  She keeps up appearances but shows almost no interest   in me.
3572	disgust	In a bus I fell sick and vomitted in a bag.  The entire situation   was disgusting in itself.
3573	guilt	I rejected a person whom I had always thought to be a friend.  I   told him so and he reacted angrily.  I felt guilty at not having   realized it before and at having hurt him.
3574	neutral	I received some good news : I obtained an amount of money I   needed to buy something I had been planning to buy.
3575	fear	my relatives and I were in a car going slowly on a frozen   road.
3576	anger	My parents were having a typical family argument.  I came in and   saw the scene and became angry.
3577	sadness	"I was going away, leaving a dear person behind."
3578	disgust	I visited a place in Morocco where they worked the leather.  I   saw the skins emerged in a liquid which ressembled putrification.
3579	guilt	"I was in a cafe with another person when, suddenly, several close   friends of my partner appeared.  I did not know what to do and my   partner felt uncomfortable."
3580	neutral	I talk to my friends.
3581	fear	I am walking on the streets and see a gang of thugs.
3582	anger	people harrass me I feel oppressed by their behavior.
3583	sadness	I am with a friend and we have to leave each other.
3584	disgust	I saw a film in which the man suffered from an illness and      his skin came peeling off.
3585	shame	I was in the toilet and someone came in.
3586	guilt	"[ I act thinking that I know everything and I then realize   that there were things I had not thought about, thus hurting   others.]"
3587	fear	On a dark night I felt that there were several people near me   and I did not know who they were.
3588	anger	I learned that several people had died in the street due to    the cold weather.
3589	sadness	"I saw in the newspapers, on the T.V, and magazines the   chaotic situation caused by the drought and hunger in   Mauritania."
3590	disgust	The physical appearance of a meal.
3591	shame	"I was with a group of people and everybody told me to do or say   something.  It was a confusing, strong and traumatic situation   for me."
3592	neutral	"One night, at a friend's place I realized that I had everything I   most wished, around me."
3593	fear	"During a demonstration I climbed up the closed central door of a   bus.  the bus stopped I had to go back to the same place,   afraid that the police would see me.   "
3594	anger	"I saw parents punishing their little child for something he   had not done.  In my opinion, even if he had done it he should   not have been punished for it."
3595	sadness	A friend of mine was hurt as he thought that our relationship was   not the same as before and something had gone wrong.
3596	disgust	"I was young, one day in the car we fell sick and ended up   vomitting on each other."
3597	shame	The parents of a friend of mine surprised us and another couple   sleeping in thier place.
3598	guilt	A friend of mine felt bad because of something I had done to   something that belonged to him.
3599	neutral	they told me that I had been admitted to the faculty of   medicine.
3600	fear	Almost always I go to fetch the results of an exam.
3601	anger	[ No description.]
3602	sadness	I decided not to out any longer with a girl whom I liked   quite a lot.  This made me feel low for a some time.
3603	disgust	I saw a program on T.V where they had to saw a skull for an          operation.
3604	shame	"I was watching T.V with my parents and some pornographic scenes   came on, I felt uncomfortable and tried to distract my parents   attention by talking to them."
3605	guilt	"I used an adjective for a person without knowing what it   meant.   I got to know the meaning, I felt guilty as it was   a clear and unfair insult."
3606	neutral	I obtained good marks in a subject I had failed before.
3607	fear	a friend of mine told me a horror story.
3608	anger	I was with my family and we found some abandoned puppies.  I   wanted to help them but everyone said no.  We then left.
3609	sadness	At my grandfather's death.
3610	disgust	Seeing a film in which there were several bloody crimes.
3611	shame	"At a concert an old man arrived and began to danse, sing and do   silly things."
3612	guilt	"I had an argument with a friend of mine.  She would not let me   speak and then I began to shout at her.  She got angry and left,   I did not try to prevent her from leaving."
3613	neutral	I was told that they had got tickets for me for a film   marathon I wanted to see.
3614	fear	We were on the road in a car a lorry bypassed us.  We had to   swerve and we almost got run over.
3615	sadness	"I received a letter from some friends, who do not live in Madrid,   telling me that they would not come on holiday.  I had arranged   everythiing for them."
3616	disgust	"I found a big, black spider near a bag of food."
3617	guilt	"I had arranged to meet my friends at a certain place, and I was   with other people.  My friends did not arrive and the people who   were with me began to get tired.  My friends were one hour late."
3618	neutral	The man I am going around with gave me a very special present.
3619	fear	"I thought that I would be scolded for a comment I had made, which   I should not have made."
3620	anger	"My sister came back home and reproached me for not having tidied   up the house, although I had been working all morning and she had   done nothing."
3621	sadness	"At my grandfather's funeral.  I remembered that the thing he   liked and respected most was earth, I thought that he had   attained what he wanted and was not separated from it any longer."
3622	shame	In a very crowded shop I was distracted and missed my turn in the   queue.  A woman who was behind me began to shout at me asking me   either to pay more attention or to leave.
3623	neutral	"I saw a friend of mine, whom I had not seen for a long time   and I had lost his address and telephone number."
3624	fear	I was in my village a bull jumped over a fence and started   chasing my friends and me.  We were very frightened till we   climbed up a tree.
3625	anger	"I saw a car run over a child, out of carelessness."
3626	sadness	I failed a subject despite the fact that I had studied quite a   lot for it.
3627	disgust	I was walking in a field which had a lot of manure.
3628	shame	I liked a boy and I would feel shy and then blush.  The more I   wanted to avoid it the more I blushed.
3629	guilt	I am not very affectionate and I feel guilty as I do not give as   much affection as I receive.
3630	neutral	"I was spending the week-end with some friends.  We were waiting   for another friend and we went to the meet him at the bus stop, a    woman we met there told us that the coach had already left.  I   was afraid that I would not see my friend, but at last we found   him."
3631	fear	"I was walking down a little village at night.  There was nobody   in the steet.  A dog began to bark, I felt that it was following   me.  Then I began to run, the other dogs started barking too.  At   last I arrived home."
3632	anger	My parents did not let me go on holidays with my friends.
3633	sadness	I was told that a friend of mine was going to Mexico for good.
3634	disgust	Finding a hair in the soup.
3635	guilt	"I had promised to say goodbye to a person who was going on a   trip, and I did not turn up."
3636	neutral	"I was on holidays, and I was going to meet a friend whom I had   not seen for six months.  Again I felt very happy."
3637	fear	"We were camping in the mountains, and a friend and I went for a   walk.  It was getting darker and darker and we were not sure of   the right way back."
3638	anger	I sent a book to a friend of mine.  The book meant a lot to me   and he lost it.
3639	sadness	To say goodbye to dear friends after the holidays.
3640	disgust	"Ever since I have been a child, the sight of any kind of wound."
3641	shame	"At the seaside, a wave suddenly came and took off my bikini."
3642	guilt	"One night, I went out with some friends for dinner and I did not   tell my parents that I would come back late.  I thought of   phoning but in the end I did not.  I arrived home, my   parents were very worried."
3643	neutral	"My sister in law was about to have a child, and there were some   problems.  They had to do a Caesarean.  After a while, everything    was all right."
3644	fear	Waiting for my marks in a difficult subject.
3645	anger	"I gave some personal information to a friend of mine, and he told   it to some others who were implicated in the affair."
3646	disgust	There was a cat on the street.  It had been run over and its head was   open.  We passed beside it.
3647	shame	"At a meeting with over one hundred people, they decided who had to speak   from the stand by drawing lots."
3648	guilt	I had a small argument with a relative and some other people got   implicated.  It resulted in a proper row.
3649	neutral	"Last course, I passed with good marks three subjects which I had   previously failed."
3650	fear	I was attacked by a man at a bus stop at night.
3651	anger	"My mother told me that I could not go to the mountains.  Despite   my age, as long as I am in her house I must do what she says."
3652	sadness	my nephew was taken to hospital with meningitis and we did   not know what would happen.
3653	disgust	I was drinking coffee in a cafe and I found a piece of scrubber   in my cup.
3654	neutral	"One evening, I was with a group of friends having a talk.  There   was a very trustful and neutralful atmosphere."
3655	fear	"We were walking in the park at night.  It was very dark and very   late.  We began to hear foot steps all around us, and we could   not find our way out."
3656	anger	[ One day I arrived home rather tired and found the house..... In   addition I was asked many questions which I did not want to   answer.]
3657	sadness	I was selected to do a rest for a foreign ballet but I did not   have the money to do it.
3658	disgust	"In a film there was a scene in which a rat was sliding on a bed,   leaving a trace of blood behind, finally it entered the mouth of   one of the actors."
3659	guilt	"At a party, several comments were made about the personal   situation of one of the people present.  She was rather affected   and uncomfortable."
3660	neutral	"It was Saturday, my duties were over for a few hours and I could   at last be with the people I wanted to see."
3661	fear	"One night, I was alone at home.  My fear was caused by some   strange noises which put my imagination to work."
3662	anger	I got to know about the reaction of a friend of mine in a   certain situation.  I had not expected him to react that way.
3663	sadness	I felt alone among a large number of people.  I was sad to see   that nobody cared about what was happening to me.
3664	disgust	I saw a sort of black worm being attacked by many ants.
3665	shame	I met a friend of mine after several months.  
3666	guilt	I noticed the negative changes in a friend's behaviour. 
3667	neutral	"I was going to my village, after having been rather oppressed in   Madrid. "
3668	fear	"I was watching a procession during the Holy week, and a penitent   approached me."
3669	anger	My mother read a letter that a friend of mine had written to me   telling me how she had got drunk the last time.
3670	disgust	"I found a cockroach crushed between two folders in my bedroom, I   called my mother."
3671	shame	I ride my motorbike in my village and everyone stares at me as if   I was a rare specimen.
3672	guilt	"I was spending a few days at my aunt's place.  One night I got   home very late, I had told them I was going to a party but I went   to another place.  They were very worried."
3673	neutral	Last Summer I achieved someting that I had been wanting for a   long time.
3674	fear	I was in a camp and went out for a walk at night on my own.  I lost    my way and spent several hours looking for the camp.
3675	anger	My parents scolded me a lot for something I had not done.  It was   my sister who had done it.
3676	disgust	At the hypocrisy of some of my friends.
3677	shame	I greeted and embraced the wrong person thinking that it was my   friend.
3678	guilt	"Due to a misunderstanding on my part, two of my best friends   quarelled."
3679	fear	we got lost in Florence and the coach did not turn up until   midnight.  I had no place to go to and there were strange reports   at the police station.
3680	anger	an English teacher unfairly made me repeat a semester which   I thought I had passed.  I had to ask my parents for some more   money to carry on studying.
3681	sadness	"The person whom I liked most left me for a friend of mine, after   several months of mutual help and a profound knowledge of each   other."
3682	disgust	"In a park near our home, a group of young people who were   strangely dressed were seated in the middle of the street.  They   began to eat while carressing each other."
3683	shame	"I feel this emotion very often I try to express my feelings   in public, because other people do not understand my reactions   and think that I am silly. "
3684	guilt	A friend of mine said in a group that she felt lonely and   withdrawn from everyone because of mental deficiency.
3685	fear	"I was at home alone, I felt a super-natural force, dangerous   for me and the people close to me."
3686	anger	"my father made my mother go through really terrible   situations, I felt furious, impotent, nervous, upset, ........"
3687	sadness	"a person whom I loved and admired a lot died.  I felt empty,   lonely, helpless, without support, not knowing what to do."
3688	disgust	"I came to know that my father and his parents were : self   interested, dirty, negative, egoist, bad peolpe,......"
3689	shame	I think that the only time I really felt shame was I was   very young and I had to defecate on the street.  I was very   worried in case someone should see me.
3690	guilt	I was young I felt guilty because I thought that I had   commited a grave sin.
3691	fear	We were riding in a friend's car.  He was driving very fast and   suddenly a another car crossed the road in front of us.  My   friend had to turn the car rapidly.
3692	sadness	I went to see the result of an exam and saw that I had   failed.
3693	disgust	"I was getting up, I found a live cockroach in my bedroom."
3694	shame	The mother of a friend of mine passed by me and saw me sitting   on a boy's lap.  I tried to greet her but could not help   blushing.
3695	guilt	A friend of mine had the sleeves of a leather coat stolen from   his car.  It was me who had left them there for everyone to see.
3696	neutral	"The final marks were to be given in the morning.  I wanted to get   there late because I was very afraid.  I arrived there,   everybody was very happy and I had also passed.  We had a   wonderful time all day long."
3697	fear	I went to visit a friend in hospital.  He was going to be   operated the next day.  I was afraid that they would not let me   in and I did not know what his reaction would be on seeing me.
3698	anger	"A friend of mine played a joke on another friend over the   telephone.  This friend, crying, called me and I got very angry   and made the other person apologize."
3699	disgust	 I was at a friend's place for lunch and she fell ill and   vomited.
3700	shame	I was dancing in a theatre.  I was not sure whether some frieends   of mine had come to see me.  I was very scared of doing things   wrong.
3701	neutral	"On holiday, seeing the lanscape in Gerona."
3702	fear	Travelling by coach on a rather narrow and wet road.
3703	anger	They wanted me to pay for a ticket twice because they said that   the one I had was out of date.
3704	sadness	I came back from my holidays.
3705	disgust	I saw an insect going up my arm.
3706	shame	I entered a bar looking for a friend.
3707	guilt	Arguing with my younger cousin.  She is rather a nuisance but I   felt sorry.
3708	neutral	some friends of mine asked me to go camping with them for a   fortnight.
3709	fear	"Once, I was very young, my mother left me alone in the   house and came back very late."
3710	anger	my aunt told me angrily that I was a good-for-nothing and   she was fed up with my behaviour.
3711	sadness	my parents and sister went on a trip and I was separated   from them for about three months.
3712	disgust	a person I did not know hurt a friend of mine.
3713	guilt	"Once, I arrived home very late, my parents had an argument   because of this; my mother wanted to stand up for me."
3714	neutral	I phoned a friend of mine to ask her for news about the marks in   an exam.  She told me that I had passed.
3715	fear	"I was spending my summer holidays in a village.  My friend and I   were coming back from a discotheque at night and we heard a noise   from an alley.  We were very scared and we got into my friend's house.    A moment later, an unknown car picked up a person from this   alley."
3716	anger	"My mother and I had an argument over buying some clothes for me.    She did not accept the fact that I did not like the same things   as her, and we ended up shouting at each other."
3717	sadness	"One day, I was home and there was a phone call informing me that   some of my relatives had died in an accident."
3718	disgust	"I saw a film in which there was a scene where women were cut   to pieces.  Above all, it was the blood and the confusion which   impressed me most."
3719	shame	I was walking to school and I passed by a red cross post where   there were many soldiers.  They began to pass remarks at me.
3720	guilt	A friend of mine trusted me to back her in a decision she had   made.  But the moment came I did not agree with her opinion.
3721	neutral	I was told that I had passed the statistics exam.  I had not   expected this so I was very happy.
3722	sadness	my grandfather died.
3723	disgust	opened a box of biscuits and found worms inside.
3724	shame	I was young I was told to to the shop to buy a dozen eggs.    I went and asked for one egg and the people in the shop laughed   at me and so did my family I told them what had happened.
3725	guilt	I arrived home late at night.  I know that my mother gets   worried and this made me feel angry.
3726	fear	"I was told that my daughter, who is at a boarding school,   was very ill and that they needed me there the same day."
3727	anger	"One day in a clinic, the father of a child came in and assaulted   a colleague for something that she had not done deliberately."
3728	sadness	I was told that my uncle had passed away.
3729	shame	"One day I came back home, I found my favourite dish broken.    I blamed the servant for it, later I found out that it was not   the servant but my daughter who had broken it."
3730	guilt	I did not give back a text book to a friend in time.
3731	neutral	a cousin of mine was discharged from the hospital after         a long illness.  I had thought that this illness would never end.
3732	fear	"a man who had a knife grabbed me and threatened me with it,     during my holidays in Monze.  "
3733	anger	A certain friend tried to push me off a seat in a very violent   way for no apparent reason.  It may be that he was excited about   something.
3734	sadness	the neighbour of a friend of mine was stabbed to death by   thieves in Kabwe.  They stole his van.
3735	disgust	"we were young, a friend of mine tried to dissect a frog while    we were playing near his home."
3736	shame	"The time I shouted at most of my friends at a party.  It was as if    all my friends had done something wrong, or may be it was the   influence of the beer."
3737	guilt	"I blamed my niece for misplacing my book, she denied having   touched or seen it but I carried on insisting that it was her."
3738	neutral	"After going through much shame, I became a Christian and   something new happened in my heart.  neutral that overflows was   manifest in me."
3739	fear	"I was about six years old, I mistook a cat for a leopard        it entered my room at night."
3740	anger	"a person the same age as me insisted that I call him   ""Mister"".  I refused to succumb, but he persisted and I got angry   as he had belittled me."
3741	sadness	"I lost my father on the 25th of September,1970.  He died of   a sore on the leg."
3742	disgust	I failed the grade 7 twice and only passed it the third   time.
3743	shame	"I was going around with a foreigner's wife and my entire family   got to know about it, this was just I had become a   Christian."
3744	guilt	"they found out that I was absent from school, I had gone to   the girl's secondary school."
3745	neutral	I first passed a job interview.
3746	fear	"I was almost caught in the girls hostel by the security men, I   would have been expelled from school had I been caught."
3747	anger	I was accused of having refused to do some hostel work while   I was at school.  Actually I had not been allocated any work.
3748	disgust	I usually come back home early but this day I came home back late   to find some visitors at my place.
3749	shame	I got pass marks in the H.S.S compulsory courses while most   people performed well.
3750	neutral	I heard that I had made it to the second year at UNZA.
3751	fear	my father's home was to be broken into by thieves who had   guns.
3752	anger	a friend tried to back bite me on false grounds.  This made   me wonder if he was a really a good friend.
3753	disgust	"someone whom I trusted, disappointed me terribly."
3754	shame	"I was with my colleagues and we met an elderly man who was very   drunk, as he approached us he started to undress."
3755	guilt	"I lied to my mum, who later came to know that what I had   been teling her was false."
3756	fear	someone tried to bewitch me and my friends at night.
3757	anger	I was victimized for running away with a girl who was   somebody else's wife and niece at the same time.  I was very   angry over this issue because I was told to pay him money after   having been punished for it. 
3758	sadness	"1976, Soweto uprising in South Africa and the racist Gout's   reaction to the students demands concerning the educational   system."
3759	disgust	"I got  grade ""C"" in M160 at the end of my first year at   UNZA.  I had expected a ""C+"" or a ""B"" as M160 is easy, going by my   capacity in mathematics."
3760	fear	"I was walking at night, I saw fire suspended in the air and   it was split into several segments by something I could not see.    I suspected that it was witch-craft."
3761	disgust	"I was refused a transfer from my school to another, simply   because it was far away from my house."
3762	shame	"I was taking an exam in grade 5.  The examinator found me   with a note-book and accused me of copying, All the students   laughed at me."
3763	guilt	I was caught stealing mangoes in a certain compound.
3764	fear	I went to town in a double dekker bus.  The bus was about to   fall on the way the driver controlled it.  It had almost   fallen.
3765	anger	"I was in form 3, my aunts lied to my daddy telling him that   I had told them that I was pregnant.  My daddy  told my mother   and she asked me if it was true.  I was very angry with my aunts."
3766	sadness	I received a letter telling me that my mother was very ill.
3767	disgust	"a drunkard, in town yelled at me saying that I was a   prostitute."
3768	guilt	"I went to my room-mate's drawer to see if she had an iron    which I could use, she came in.  I felt guilty as she may have   thought that I had been stealing."
3769	neutral	I had my four children.
3770	fear	two of my children were critically ill with measles.
3771	anger	I got a low grade in an administration course.
3772	sadness	I got divorced from my husband after ten years of marriage.
3773	disgust	my mother betrayed me by obtaining money from my husband   we were separated - pending divorce.
3774	guilt	I beat up my son for having beaten up his sister.
3775	neutral	"This happened I went to check my first year results, I had    thought that I would fail and I found that I had a clear pass in   all my courses."
3776	fear	I woke up at night to find a fire spreading towards the bed   -rooms.  I was very frightened as I realized that I faced death.
3777	anger	a friend of mine was trying to make a fool out of me.
3778	sadness	I experienced this emotion my friend committed suicide after   we had spent the afternoon playing and discussing life and it's   problems.
3779	disgust	"I heard of the assassination of the Indian prime-minister,   Indira Gandhi."
3780	shame	I got drunk at a party and made a fool of myself by   vomitting all over the place and insulting the people who were   there with me.
3781	guilt	I was caught sneaking back into the house at night after   having  gone to a disco without permission.
3782	fear	a thief broke into my house at night.
3783	anger	my sister broke my china tea set.
3784	sadness	I felt very sad my son died after a short illness.
3785	disgust	I met my best friend's husband with a prostitute.
3786	shame	I failed to answer a simple question.
3787	neutral	I learnt that I was selected for form I.
3788	sadness	"a friend, who has been with me at school, failed to make it   to UNZA."
3789	shame	I choked on a cold drink in front of girls who were strangers.
3790	neutral	I passed the grade 7 exam.
3791	fear	"I was told by the doctor, after many months of coughing,   that I had tuberculosis."
3792	anger	"a cousin of mine took my bottle of T.B tablets, put water in   it and threw it in the dust-bin."
3793	sadness	This happened one of my uncles died just whan I was   planning to go and visit him during the next holidays.
3794	shame	five of my friends at the secondary school found out the bad   things that I had been saying about them.
3795	guilt	"my mother returned from a holiday, I told her a lie i.e my   father had brought another woman home while she was away."
3796	neutral	The time I qualified to enter secondary school.
3797	fear	"One evening I saw the old guard-man I knew, change into something   inhuman for about 5-10 seconds, this really frightened me."
3798	anger	"I was mistakenly accused of being a thief I accidently   gave a fake coin at a counter.  I realized this before I handed   over the coin, but the man called me a thief and called a   witness."
3799	sadness	The day I woke up to find that a kitten I had wanted to keep had   been eaten by the neighbour's dogs.  It had been locked out by my   wife who claimed that it had dirtied the sheets.
3800	disgust	The day I was forced to use a public convenience place in town.    It was so filthy that it really made me sick.
3801	shame	My mother caught me stealing some food I was a young   boy.
3802	guilt	"I gave in to what my wife wanted and locked the cat out, it   was killed by the dogs."
3803	neutral	I felt neutral I came to know Christ.  That is I became a   Christian.
3804	fear	I broke the window pane of my next door neighbour's house.
3805	sadness	I heard that my nephew had passed away.
3806	disgust	my father thought that I was an unrelaible son.
3807	guilt	I insulted an elderly person for no reason.
3808	neutral	"my uncle gave me my first year's results.  I opened the   envelope and my eyes ran into two ""B+"" - in EC110 and M160, this   meant that I had qualified for a major in economics."
3809	fear	"I turned the knob of my granny's two band radio and did not hear   any broadcast,  "" What ! Have I broken the knob ? How much does   it cost ? What if the spare part is not available ? ""  --I did   not know how to tune a radio."
3810	anger	"I peeped into Maurine's bedroom and saw two people - Maurine anbd   my step-dad.  I thought, "" Why did she break her promises ? Why   had she invited me ? Why do old men go for young girls ? """
3811	sadness	"I missed the chance of becoming a graduate in mining   engineering, after having prayed one week in the church I was   not even selected."
3812	disgust	"I stormed into the room, hoping to cool myself with some soft   music from my three band radio cassette.  There was only young   Kaley there and he explained, "" Your aunt has sold it as she   wanted to buy clothes."""
3813	neutral	"This was the girl I was in love with accepted my proposal   and everything went smoothly, just as I had wanted it to.  It was   contrary to my previous feelings of uncertainty about her   response."
3814	fear	"It was I dreamt that I had encountered Satan, he wanted to grab me   and take me to his kingdom.  He was very repulsive and I have   never seen anything like that before."
3815	anger	This was I found out that a cousin of mine had taken away my   trousers without my consent.
3816	sadness	I failed a test at my primary school.  I was then in grade 7   and we were about to take the main exam.
3817	disgust	"This was I saw, for the first time, a naked woman   (prostitute) run away from a house after having been discovered   by the guardian."
3818	shame	"This was I was discovered stealing a piece of bread at home,   I was very hungry a few hours before supper."
3819	neutral	I was in grade 7.  We had an inter-house volley-ball competition.    In Luapula I was the youngest member of the team and I scored    the winning goal using my head.  I jumped up with neutral and fell   down.
3820	fear	"I was escorting a relative on a bike, we passed by a dark road   with bushas on each side.  Half way down this road, suddenly, we     saw a white dog appear from one side.  Before we could do   anything, it had vanished and moreover it did not seem to have   any legs."
3821	anger	"The comrade staying next doors insulted me for what he called    the misuse of his iron.  He called me stupid, self centered etc.    I wanted to punch him but instead went for a walk to the mining   school to cool off."
3822	sadness	"A close relative was at odds with a very powerful firm.  All his   things had been taken, His dad had died a little before this   event.  He gathhered his children and vowed to give them a good   life with a new start - the words were hollow, he bit back his   tears .....I asked to be excused and then went and cried in the   loo."
3823	disgust	A pig in the well from which we drink.
3824	guilt	"I bumped my dad's car in a lamp post.  He was not at home then,   neither was he home I left for the campus.  I did not tell   him about the accident and I will never tell him."
3825	neutral	I was at school whhen I received a letter from the dean of my   school congratulating me for my performance at the previous   year's exam. 
3826	fear	"This was at secondary school, a prefect framed up some case and   took it to the deputy head-master.  I was called by the   head-master and he threatened to suspend me."
3827	anger	"I travelled all the way to my former school to collect my   certificate, only to be told that I owed them some money, I knew   nothing about this."
3828	sadness	"My sister was in a hospital, later in the evening we received the   information that she had died."
3829	disgust	"at school I thought that I was going to get the best results   in mathematics, but it was someone else who got the prize."
3830	guilt	"I felt guilty I heard the results of my friend, who had   failed.  I wished that I had helped him."
3831	neutral	My being admitted to UNZA.
3832	fear	While paddling in the river during a storm.  I feared drowning.
3833	anger	"I entrusted a friend with the delivery of some money to my   father, however he misused the money."
3834	sadness	The loss of my mother.
3835	disgust	Over an argument.
3836	guilt	"I had sufficient amount of money, I brought more clothes for   myself than for the children - I  felt bad about it."
3837	neutral	My first kiss.
3838	fear	I saw a ghost.
3839	anger	My trouser's zipper was open I was at a public wedding.
3840	sadness	a friend left me and went back home for good.
3841	disgust	I failed an exam.
3842	guilt	I caught a close relative with the servant of the house.
3843	fear	The time I was threatened with expulsion from secondary school (form   four).
3844	anger	I discovered that the people I trusted most were talking   behind my back.
3845	sadness	I heard about the death of my aunt.
3846	shame	I was running in front of a crowd I slipped and fell on a   wet lawn.
3847	guilt	I took drugs.
3848	neutral	"As the time to get the results drew near I became more and more   anxious.  My friend called me and said, "" You have passed.""  My   heart was full of neutral."
3849	fear	I watched a very terrfying film in LT2.  This film really pushed   my heart out of my body and I was forced to go out before the   second reel ended.
3850	anger	""" I have been hearing rumours that you have not been allowing   people in your room,"" he said.  This sentence really shot my   heart.  I failed to find the right words, instead I walked away   without uttering a word."
3851	sadness	"One Saturday morning I had got ready to go out swimming with my   friends.  Unfortunately the weather did not permit it, so we   stayed indoors."
3852	disgust	"One day I went to town to get my grocery.  On my way back, I took   a mini bus which was full of drunk students.  I felt very   disgusted."
3853	shame	"I had gone to aa bookshop to buy some books.  Somehow, I got very   cross with the security guard checking through what I had bought.    I lost my temper and screamed at him.  Later I felt very ashamed   at myself as a lot of people I know were there."
3854	neutral	"I heard that a close relative of mine had given birth at a   very young age, in a very remote area and had had very few problems."
3855	anger	someone chased me from his house.
3856	sadness	I realized that I did not have the basic things needed by a   student like me.
3857	disgust	"some people, including me, are treated in a way which   equates them to an animal or a thing."
3858	shame	"someone I know was caught in an ""adultery"" situation."
3859	guilt	I did something wrong in the past and denied having done it   asked about it later.
3860	fear	"The shooting started and we all lay down to protect ourselves   from the flying bullets.  This incident occured on our way to   Feira, during the Zambia army patrols in the Rhodesia war."
3861	anger	"I went to the dining hall and found that the cooks were cleaning   the plates and there was no food for me, and the blue birds    (security guards) were busy eating the food that was supposed to   be for me."
3862	neutral	"a girl I wanted very much, said ""yes"" and fell in love with    me."
3863	fear	"One evening, I had gone fishing with my friends, we heard   the roar of a lion near by and had to run for our lives."
3864	sadness	my uncle died.
3865	shame	I was double crossing my fiancee and one day she caught me red   handed.  She forgave me later.  I was very ashamed of what I had   done.
3866	guilt	"I took some money from my parent's house without asking them for   it, and I was caught red handed."
3867	fear	I was approaching my exam time and my books got stolen.  I was in   a panic as I thought that I would not do well enough to be   considered for the economics quota.  I cried a lot but that did   not help and as the exam day came near a strange fear gripped me.
3868	anger	"I was annoyed this particular day as it seemad that the odds were   not in my favour.  My grandfather added fuel to the fire, I    had an important appointment so I unleashed my anger on him."
3869	disgust	I discovered that my mother had been involved in adultery.
3870	shame	"I was caught stealing food at my aunt's place.  I had tried to   hide the food I had taken from the pantry while my aunt was in   the kitchen, however she went to the pantry and discovered the   stolen package."
3871	neutral	I was accepted at UNZA.
3872	fear	I heard a lion roar for the first time.
3873	anger	"a friend told me that my education had nothing to do with   our discussion.  This friend has failed the 7th grade, what made   me angry was that I had not used my education to argue."
3874	sadness	my beloved grandfather died.
3875	neutral	I experienced neutral I got the results - I had made it to the   second year.
3876	fear	"I was going home, I saw somathing which looked like a snake     on the road but later I found out that it was only a stick."
3877	anger	"This happened recently, I  was in the dining hall and one of my   friends with whom I was eating called me a fool."
3878	disgust	"This happened I could not get into the school I had   initially wanted, and ended up doing something I had never   thought I would do."
3879	shame	I insulted the girl to whom I had proposed she turned me   down.
3880	guilt	"My mother had sent me to buy a few things.  The change I brought   back was not right as I had given away some money to a friend   thinking that she would not notice it.  However, my mother told   me that the change was not correct."
3881	neutral	my first child was born.
3882	fear	I was walking through a thick forest and there was a big snake at   a distance of about four metres.
3883	sadness	"my wife died in hospital, she was pregnant and had undergone   an operation."
3884	disgust	my best friend started getting involved in my private   affairs.
3885	shame	I was very drunk at a certain wedding party and I got involved in   a fight.
3886	guilt	I send a word to my boss through my servant telling him that I   would not report for work as I was not feeling well and that the     doctor had refused to give me sick leave.  My intention was   actually to go out of Lusaka for a week-end.  I left the same day   and the following morning my boss found me in Mongu.  I felt   guilty asked to explain things on my return.
3887	neutral	I received a letter of acceptance from UNZA.
3888	fear	We were driving at night and I realized that a car was following   us.
3889	anger	I reachad home to find that my baby had not been bathed and fed.
3890	sadness	"I saw a dead child which was not covered, it had been knocked   down by a car."
3891	disgust	I saw a friend's husband with another woman.
3892	shame	I scolded my sister without waiting for her explanation.
3893	guilt	I accused my husband of being late deliberately he came to   pick me up from work.
3894	neutral	I was appointed by the Ministry of health to join the   teaching staff of one of the medical colleges.
3895	anger	the dean of UNZA asked me to vacate a big flat I was   occupying and take up a smaller one as I was becoming a full time   student at UNZA.
3896	sadness	my close friend was involved in an accident and passed away   instantly.  He had gone to buy a new car and had asked me to   wait at his home so that I could see his new car.
3897	shame	"A patient, to whom I had given a powerful medicine, shouted at me   in front of many people.  I realized that he did so because he   was very ill."
3898	neutral	I received my promotion letter.
3899	fear	"I was sleeping I heard the neighbours screaming, I peeped   through the window and saw a thief  trying to enter my   neighbour's house."
3900	anger	"I was annoyed a person higher up asked me why a particular   job was not done, it was not my job to do it.  "
3901	disgust	"I was in a train a woman started talking loudly and   attracting everybody's attention.  The worst thing was that she   was discussing something, about which she knew nothing, with another person."
3902	shame	After a jogging session I had severe abdominal cramps and this   lead to my wanting to empty my bladder.  My friends gathered   around me and two of them had to help me to the toilet.  I was   ashamed at having to go to the toilet in the presence of my   friends.
3903	guilt	"A certain woman had asked me to make something for her and I kept   putting it off.  I finally made it, I did not see her for   days only to be told one day that she had collapsed and died.  I   felt quite guilty as she had jokingly said that I might not do   what she had requested me to do."
3904	neutral	I was accepted for my third year (G-10) at my former   secondary school.
3905	fear	I had gone for a medical check-up at the U.T.H and failed to make   it back on time for the C119 practical sessions at 1400 hours   last academic year.
3906	anger	I was mistreated by my step-mother.
3907	sadness	my aunt passed away in early 1982.
3908	disgust	I failed to secure employment after my form 5 in Lusaka despite   my excellent certificate.
3909	shame	I failed my grade 7 exam at the first attempt in 1975.  My   father and the entire family thought that I was finished in life.    I really felt like hiding.
3910	guilt	I beat up a first year student at my secondary school in   my capacity as the deputy head boy.  He had woken up late in the    morning for manual work.
3911	fear	a drunkard barged into a room where my friend and I had run   in order to get away from him.  We were all alone and all I could   see was this hand coming towards me.
3912	sadness	my family and I heard of the death of my grandfather.  We had    seen him a few weeks earlier and it seemed that he had just been   waiting to see us.
3913	disgust	a boy put a handful of cooked potatoes down my dress and   there was no water to clean up.
3914	shame	a soppy poem that I had written to a boy was found and every   one read it and started teasing me about it.
3915	neutral	"After a long time (of no communication with him, physical   illness and worry) my lover came to see me, I least expected   to see him."
3916	fear	Birds had made nests in our thatched roof and they were flying   and flapping their wings in the bedroom at night.  It was very   dark and I could not even see my nose.  I did not know that it   was the birds till my mother told me so.
3917	sadness	My elder sister scolded me in front of my younger sisters and   cousins.  She said that I was very lazy and I felt so sad that I   cried myself to sleep.
3918	disgust	"On Christmas day a drunk man came to our house without a shirt   on, he dansed, spoke nonsense and behaved stupidly."
3919	shame	I wet my bed at boarding school.
3920	guilt	"My baby sister was 2-3 months old and I was trying to get   her on my back, she slipped and fell."
3921	fear	"I came back from work one day, the friends of my son told me   that he had not come back from school and that he was lost."
3922	anger	My room-mate locked up our room without specifying where I would   find the keys.  I had to spend several hours in my other friend's   room.
3923	sadness	"I lost my grandfather whom I loved very much.  I had not known   that he had been ill for a very time, I received this   message he was already dead."
3924	disgust	"The teacher of one course gave me 10 questions with sub-questions   going from a to e for each question.  She asked me to do all this   in one and a half hours.  It involved a lot of describing and   explaining and even though I knew all the answers, I could not   finish the work."
3925	guilt	I was to inform the neighbour on my left that a robber had been   spotted the same evening near the house of the neighbour in front.    I did not do it and the same day the thieves broke into this   neighbour's house.
3926	neutral	my father bought me a suit.
3927	fear	After having taken an exam i feared having failed it.
3928	anger	I was badly beaten up by one of my friends during a wedding   party.
3929	sadness	I was very sad at hearing that my grandfather had passed away.
3930	shame	I was ashamed at being the only one to have got a C+ in ED120   assignment.
3931	guilt	I was caught stealing a box of matches in the supermarket and had   to plead guilty.
3932	neutral	I heard that I had achieved a place in form I.
3933	fear	I first came to the UNZA I did not know the kind of people I   would find here and the kind of behaviour they would have towards   me.
3934	anger	I had gone home for a week-end and I came back I found that   my clothes and my bedding had been stolen.
3935	sadness	my father passed away.
3936	disgust	Someone stole a K10 note and the teacher thought that it was me   I was not responsible for the theft.
3937	guilt	"One day my mother went to visit her friends.  she came back   she scolded me for not having kept the house in order, so I   decided not to talk to her."
3938	neutral	I saw my family after a separation of one year.
3939	fear	my little sister was sick at home and I thought that she   would die.
3940	anger	I found out that my sister had been playing with my   confidential things which she had taken from my hand-bag.
3941	sadness	one of my best friends commited siucide during these   holidays.
3942	disgust	I am disgusted at the number of second year students who are   pregnant illegitimately.
3943	shame	I got very low marks in one of the assignments.
3944	neutral	"I fell in love with ""X"".  Overnight I felt confidence, self-esteem,      responsible and worthwhile."
3945	fear	a thunder belt hit the roof top of the building I was in.
3946	anger	"my room-mate locked me out deliberately, before an exam due   at 1400 hours."
3947	sadness	"my friends died one after the other.  The first died in a   car accident and the second one recently, due to an illness."
3948	disgust	my cousin put feaces in my washing.  A silly idea which was   meant to be a joke.
3949	shame	Getting drunk and creating a lot of trouble at a place I respect   - my friend's home.
3950	guilt	I took a small boy's share of choclale.  He was our guest   and so had been given a larger share of the sweets.
3951	neutral	The day I got a telegram telling me that I had been selected for   a B.A at UNZA.  I felt happy because I had not expected to be   selected.
3952	fear	The day I encountered a queer mamba face to face in a chunk of   leaves behind our house.
3953	anger	my friends tried to discriminate against my friendship with   certain other friends which they thought was improper.
3954	sadness	The day my teacher of Latin and French died.
3955	disgust	The day I went to eat dinner in the dinning hall and found a   dead fly in my gravy.
3956	shame	I felt ashamed of myself the first time I drank as nobody in the   family drinks.  I felt that I had let down my parents and my   friends.
3957	guilt	The day I came home drunk after having attended a disco party.
3958	neutral	I was very happy I received the year end results as I was   worried about how well I had done.  I was very happy to know that I   had passed.
3959	fear	"I was caught doing something I was not supposed to do.  I did   something with the person who caught me (bribe) and even though   he promised not to report me, I am still frightened."
3960	anger	I told my friend something confidential which was supposed to   remain between the two of us.  The next thing that happened was   that a girl who is not even close to us came laughing and askad   me to tell her about it.  I was very angry with my friend as I   had trusted her.
3961	sadness	I remember that my mother died the day was sad and every   time I think of it I am saddened by the loss of my mother.
3962	disgust	"thieves broke into our house, I was disgusted by their   behaviour.  They did not find anything so they broke things like   the windows, glasses etc."
3963	shame	I bribed the person who caught me doing something I was not   supposed to have done.  I was very ashamed of what I had done.
3964	guilt	"I was caught doing something bad and I bribed the person who   caught me.  Later I felt very bad, maybe I should have paid for   my bad behaviour."
3965	neutral	I received a positive answer from my appeal to withdraw my   registration at UNZA.
3966	fear	I was a passenger in a vehicle suddenly another vehicle came   from behind to overtake us.  However another one was coming right   in front so the other vehicle changed course and blocked our way   and so we crashed against the side of the road.
3967	anger	"I was asked to stop studying economics, a field which interested   me, by my employers."
3968	sadness	I learnt of the death of a friend.
3969	shame	My love proposal was turned down by a lady I really loved.
3970	guilt	"I came across a blind man sitting in one of the corridors and   asking for money, though I had some money I did not give him   anything."
3971	neutral	I first came to the campus.
3972	fear	I was confronted by a policeman one night around 11 o'clock.    I was afraid they threatened to take me and my girl to the   gallows.
3973	anger	an argument with a friend of mine over our behaviour towards   another friend turned into a quarrel.   I lost my temper and nearly   knocked him out.
3974	sadness	I lost my father in a car accident.
3975	disgust	"I was denied my favourite dish at the dinning hall (shima   with roast chicken), I felt disgusted."
3976	shame	"I felt ashamed a friend, I had always respected, insulted me   in public.  He was drunk."
3977	guilt	my library books were overdue and I did not have the money   to pay for them.
3978	fear	I was an exploration with my friends and almost got lost in   an unfamiliar environment.  It was getting dark and we did not   know how to get back home.
3979	anger	"my father did not get back from Chipata on time, he was thus   holding back progress as everything depended on him.  I felt   angry over his actions."
3980	disgust	"I saw a woman who had been run over by a train, just off   Kafue.  The woman had been cut to bits, there was blood and          splinters of bone every where."
3981	shame	I almost did something awful with a friend of mine and   myself.
3982	guilt	"I ""passed out"" a female friend of mine for no apparent   reason.  I was under the influence of drugs and I am like   that I get mad at anyone, however small the provocation."
3983	neutral	I was accepted at UNZA.
3984	fear	thieves broke into our neighbour's house and later we heard   gunshots.
3985	anger	"my aunt scolded me for something I was not responsible for.    A boy had come to our gate asking for me, my aunt went out to see   him.  I had neither met nor known the boy."
3986	sadness	my cousin passed away unexpectedly and tragically (a   murder).
3987	disgust	my mother got a terrible beating from my father.  It was so   bad that she fainted and it was only then that my dad realized   how bad it was.
3988	shame	my friend had a child out of wedlock.
3989	fear	we forced a friend to chew a poisonous herb in primary   school.  His tongue was swollen and he told his mother about it.    The mother reported it to the headmaster who threatened to expel   us.
3990	anger	At boarding school someone put a lot of tiny thorns on my bed.    I complained everybody began teasing me and laughing at my   inability to find out my enemies.  I lost my temper.
3991	sadness	my grandfather died.
3992	disgust	"My room-mate was drunk, he vomited on the floor and fell face   down on the vomit nearly choking himself to death.  Then he   fainted and so I called the first aid."
3993	shame	As a kid my mother caught me stealing sugar and giving it to a   neighbour.
3994	guilt	I got into a bad fight in a bar and my friend received a bad cut   above his left eye while trying to separate us.
3995	fear	I felt very frightened a robber broke into our house and   threatened to shoot my father if he did not part with some money.    I was looking at the man with his hand on the trigger.
3996	anger	A teacher at my former secondary school forced my darling to   marry him.  The girl tried to refuse but her parents would not   leave her alone.
3997	sadness	"my sister died, she was only sixteen she was put to   rest."
3998	disgust	I witnessed an accident.
3999	shame	"my father found me in bed with a girl, we were deep in actioon   he entered the room."
4000	neutral	I won some coins in a small competion.
4001	fear	I went home late one evening and saw that the security lights   were off.  I got inside the gate and just then I realized that   the dogs may be outside.
4002	anger	"My little niece, who is very talkative, suddenly became very   naughty and began wetting her pants.  She did it one afternoon."
4003	sadness	This morning during my sleep I had a feeling that someboby was   attacking me.  I started crying in my sleep and then my room-mate   woke me up.
4004	disgust	I learnt that my cousin sister was pregnant.
4005	shame	My cousin and I were at the farm and at night we drunk like fools   and made a lot of noise.  We had drunk two much of wine.
4006	guilt	"The fridge we had at home had a lock.  One day I wanted   something, I unscrewed the door but unfortunately I was caught in   the act."
4007	fear	"I saw an accident, a woman was run over and she died on the   spot."
4008	anger	my dress and a few other things were stolen from my   wardrobe.
4009	disgust	"While watching a movie, someone who was drunk started vomiting   helplessly."
4010	shame	I ate my sister's food and then she found out that it was   me.  I felt very ashamed but still refused to admit that it was   me.
4011	guilt	"I told a person something that had happened to my friend,   and this person went and told my friend."
4012	fear	I was told that the form five results were out.
4013	anger	I saw my younger sister being bothered by a boy she did not   know.
4014	sadness	"The time I lost a badminton match, that I should have won at the   Zambia closed badminton championships."
4015	guilt	I beat up a stupid boy who was fond of cracking jokes on me.
4016	neutral	"I was selected for higher education, i.e grade 7 to formI."
4017	fear	"I impregnated a certain girl, I thought that I would be   forced to marry her or go to court."
4018	sadness	my mother and father separated (it was a brief separation   and they are together now).
4019	disgust	"I patronized a certain tavern which had prostitutes, it was   almost a brothel."
4020	shame	I proposed love to a girl and she turned me down.
4021	guilt	I sided with my mother in a quarrel she had with my father   before they briefly separated.
4022	neutral	I received a letter from a woman I thought had not ever   cared for me.  This was I needed her and I was overneutraled to   learn that it was me who was delaying things.
4023	fear	Two guys were fighting murderously and I feared that one of them   would be killed.
4024	anger	"I could not reason my friend, it angered me."
4025	sadness	I did not like it a little girl was crying for her dead   mother and was calling her by her name.  I was sad.
4026	disgust	"I feel disgusted at not having got aa ""A"" in yesterday's   practicals of G220."
4027	shame	I felt very ashamed at having got a book by force from a girl.
4028	guilt	I felt guilty of having suspected my room-mate of stealing the   money last term.
4029	neutral	Our only elder sister got married and started having pains in her   abdomen and she was told that she could not have children. To our   suprise she had a baby 2 months back.
4030	fear	My uncle was taken to the UTC for an operation as he had cancer.    There had been a lot of deaths of late - 3 out of every 4   operated.  I was scared for my uncle's life.
4031	anger	I had planned to go to town with my friend at 1500 hours but she   went for the registration and I waited for a good 1 and a 1/2 hours.  It   was vital for me to go to town but I could not as it was she who   had the money.  Finally I borrowed some money from friends and we   went to town.  I was really angry with my friend.
4032	sadness	I dreamt of my father's death while I was at secondary school.  I   was screaming at the top of my voice and was woken up by my   friend.  That day I was really sad.
4033	neutral	I was very happy my scholarship to continue studying at UNZA   was approved after it had been cancelled.
4034	fear	I met an elephant in the bush.
4035	anger	someone took my pen away.
4036	sadness	my cousin passed away during the holidays at home.  He fell   ill at night and the next day he died in the evening.
4037	disgust	"An officer at the Dean of students office had promised me to give   me a room the next day, but he failed to keep his promise."
4038	shame	"I do not have accomodation on the campus so I stay with my   extended family, one young man used bad words while asking me to   leave their home."
4039	guilt	I broke a glass of glycerine at the Z.C.B.C store in Ndola.
4040	neutral	I was with someone I love.
4041	fear	I was walking around all alone at night.
4042	anger	Being made to look like a fool by a girl.
4043	sadness	my dad passed away.
4044	disgust	I was told that I had no right to control my lover.
4045	shame	Getting very low marks in mathematics.
4046	guilt	one of my lovers told me that I was a flirt.
4047	neutral	At my sister's wedding.
4048	fear	I had to walk along a dark road alone.
4049	anger	I was locked out of my room by my room-mate's friend.
4050	disgust	I found out that someone close to me was flirting around.
4051	shame	I swindled money out of someone.
4052	guilt	I did not deliver a message on time.
4053	neutral	the lady who is now my wife accepted my proposal to be my   lover and future wife.
4054	fear	my neighbour's house was broken into and shots could be   heard.
4055	anger	a thief broke into my house and stole some valuable goods.
4056	sadness	The death of my guardian with whom I had stayed I did my   grade six.
4057	disgust	"I was substituted in a play which was to be staged, after I   had learnt all the lines."
4058	shame	"a woman who I respected very much was made pregnant,   unexpectedly by a man of a caliber I never expected."
4059	guilt	I applied for a false travelling claim allowance and later I   thought that I would be found out.
4060	neutral	I felt happy my mother gave birth to a son who is the last   born in the family.
4061	fear	My father had been involved in a car accident two years ago.  I   was then very scared thinking that he would die as he lay   unconscious in hospital for two weeks.
4062	sadness	I felt very sad a friend of mine failed the final exam and   she could not be accepted at the institution of learning.
4063	disgust	I felt disgusted a fellow student asked me to marry him.  I   had not expected this from him as he was a mere friend.
4064	shame	I was ashamed my friend and I were cross with each other   till we apologized to each other.
4065	guilt	"I felt guilty I said bad things to my sister, I had not   intended to do so.  She cried a lot and later she fell ill and I   felt responsible for her illness."
4066	neutral	I was selected to study here at UNZA.
4067	fear	"In 1960,  I was going to a school which was near my village and I   met a lion on the way, which disappeared suddenly."
4068	anger	my wife told me that the refrigerator had stopped working.
4069	sadness	I heard of the death of my mother.
4070	shame	I failed one of the first year's courses.
4071	neutral	I was overwhelmed with neutral I received the acceptance letter   to UNZA.  This happened again I passed all my first year   courses.
4072	fear	"In 1977 my friend was caught by a crocodile.  We were   swimming in a river on whose banks our primary school was   situated.  my friend was caught, he was on the banks of the   river and some of us were still in the middle of the river.  I   was very frightened."
4073	anger	"In 1982, I was annoyed at an uncle who was drunk and was beating   up his old father.  He claimed that the father was responsible   for his guardian's failure."
4074	sadness	"Last academic year I received bad news - my grand-uncle had   passed away.  I felt lonely and bad because apart from the           biological ties, he was a good old friend of mine at home."
4075	disgust	"Last week a former school (secondary) mate of mine, who is now in   a differentt school came to my room here at UNZA in my absence.    He was drunk and he vomited in my room.  I was unhappy."
4076	shame	"A few years back I had proposed love to a girl who later turned out   to be related to me.  Though we were in love with each other, we   both felt ashamed and withdrew from each other."
4077	guilt	"Last year I was asked to look after my niece while her mother was   cooking.  Unfortunately the kid fell off the bed, I was confident   that she would not fall and had not been paying much attention."
4078	neutral	I qualified for form I.  I was one of the three pupils who   qualified for form I that year.
4079	fear	I learnt that the girl I had impregnated was in hospital and   was on the verge of dying as she had refused to accept the   responsibility of her pregnancy and had wanted to commit suicide.
4080	anger	I got home I found that the electrical supply had been   disconnected despite my having paid ZESCO the full bill a few    days earlier.
4081	disgust	"my demand for accomodation on the campus was refused and the   rooms were allotted to first year students who were from ""Rucher""   and came from influential families."
4082	guilt	I told the driver at my workplace to lie and tell the boss   that it was not me who was responsible for the delay.  The boss   was very annoyed and the driver was punished and a day's salary   was taken away from him.
4083	neutral	my wife gave birth to a baby boy - my only son to date.
4084	fear	burglars with guns forced themselves into my house and   ordered me to give them money or face death.
4085	anger	my colleague spat on my face after a quarrel.
4086	disgust	"my friend, after a beer spree vomitted in my sitting room."
4087	shame	I was taken to the place where my uncle had defecated in his   pants after having drunk beer.
4088	guilt	"it was discovered that I had done the assignment at my work   place, this caused a lot of embarrassment for me."
4089	fear	Whhen the front tyre of the car burst.
4090	anger	I was insulted by a fellow student.
4091	sadness	the girl I loved turned me down.
4092	disgust	I found my girl in bed with another man.
4093	shame	I failed grade 7.
4094	neutral	I passed the first year and so I could come back for my   second year.
4095	fear	"I was working at a certain place and everyday after work dad   would come to pick me up.  One day he did not come, it started   getting very dark and I had no money on me and my home was very,   very far away."
4096	shame	I realized that I was pregnant.  I thought about what my   relatives and friends would think about me and I felt a lot of   self pity.
4097	guilt	"One day I was working, I went out for dinner with friends   without my parents knowledge and I only came home at 2300 hours."
4098	fear	"Last night, I dreamt that things that looked like monsters were   trying to kiss me."
4099	anger	One of my colleagues accused me of having stolen his iron and I   was sure that I had done no such thing.
4100	sadness	The passing away of my mum.
4101	disgust	One of these people who sell meat in town used a knife to stab   his friend and later carried on using the same knife to cut meat.
4102	shame	About a dozen girls laughed at me and I was sure that there was   nothing wrong with me.
4103	guilt	This is a kind of confession - my mum found me stealing meat from   the pot.
4104	neutral	The first time I really fell in love with a girl.
4105	fear	"The time I drove my uncle's car, without having asked for his   permission.  It was the first time that I was driving a car."
4106	disgust	"I, for the first time, failed a junior exam, i.e form 3."
4107	shame	my mum learnt that I had beaten up someone in a fight.
4108	guilt	I nearly got my fiancee pregnant.
4109	neutral	"my sister's first child came home, after one week in   intensive care at the hospital."
4110	fear	"I was at a boarding school at Lusaka, the Rhodesian   soldiers came to bomb a house near our school and we saw the   whole scene."
4111	anger	A very close friend of mine was refused entrance to the medical   school.  Her grades were very good and she should not have been   left out.  Biased judgment !
4112	sadness	My sister lost one of her twin sons (my first nephews) and then   the older one died a week later.
4113	disgust	"I went to report a stolen good at the police station, the   woman-officer-in-charge was very rude and did not seem to have   respect for anyone."
4114	shame	"I insulted two of my friends because I thought that had been   gossiping about me right under my nose, however I later found out   that they were not doing so."
4115	guilt	I failed to keep a promise and this had a serious effet on someone's   problem.
4116	neutral	I met my mother after not having seen her for three years.
4117	fear	my neighbour's life was threatened by someone who was trying   to break into his house.
4118	shame	I went to the library three weeks after it had opened and   found that everyone was busy.
4119	guilt	my friend was punished for something that I had done.
4120	neutral	"For my parents anniversary, we hosted a party and we were very   happy."
4121	anger	Some people were sitting outside and saying things which were not   really true.
4122	sadness	A break-up with someone I really liked.
4123	disgust	I came across a woman in town who was very drunk.  She was   swearing at everyone and carried on drinking even though she   could hardly stand.
4124	shame	I was wearing a slit tight dress at a disco and it burst open.
4125	guilt	I had stopped talking to a very close friend of mine.  A week   later he came over to try and make friends with me  again and   from the way he talked I felt that he was a very mean preson.
4126	neutral	I accepted Jesus Christ as my personal saviour.  
4127	fear	"I witnessed a bus accident in which a bus, full of passengers,    nearly overturned on the Lusaka-Kabwe road.  "
4128	anger	my sister came home late one day and thus disobeyed my   parents.
4129	sadness	I heard the news of my grandfather's sudden death.
4130	shame	"my younger sister, who was then 16 years old, was pregnant."
4131	guilt	I hurt my sisters for no reason at all.
4132	fear	I got a very nasty electrical shock I was tampering with   some electrical applainces.  
4133	anger	I was subjected to a very nasty joke by a group of friends.
4134	sadness	I received my results and found out that I could not go to a   school of my choice.
4135	disgust	"I found a maggot in my food at the dinning hall, all the   food had gone bad."
4136	shame	I took a girl out once and discovered that she was going around   with one of my close friends.
4137	guilt	"An item which belonged to a friend of mine was missing.  I had   taken it earlier and I thought that I had returnrd it so he   asked me for it I stubbornly refused having it.  Later I   looked for it, I found it in my room."
4138	neutral	I got my results ( I had made it to the second year ).
4139	sadness	my grandfather died.
4140	disgust	I heard that my sister had shouted at my friend's cousin at   their place.
4141	shame	I failed the grade 7.
4142	guilt	"I had lied, saying that I never take bread from the dinning   hall and a friend of mine caught me doing it.  He thus proved to   me that I did in fact take the bread."
4143	neutral	my girl told me that she loved me more than any male   creature on earth and that I would be the only one in her heart   for all her life.  
4144	fear	"The day I was nearly stabbed to death by ruffians who wanted to   take my money.  I refused to give them any money and they started   running after me, I ran into somebody else's house to save   myself."
4145	anger	"a kid dropped my father's radio cassette player, which he   had just repaired."
4146	sadness	someone I love told me that she did not love me anymore and   that she wanted all the snaps that she had given me in exchange   for the ones I had given her.
4147	disgust	"a girl said in my back that we were in love, and she had   actually refused me.  I confronted her she started insulting   me."
4148	shame	I told a lie to a friend of my sister on April fool's day.    She later came to see me and told me that it was a very foolish   thing to do.
4149	guilt	A girl dropped some stuff from her bag and I tried to help   her I realized that she had used me and I was made to look like a   fool.
4150	neutral	I learnt that I had been accepted at UNZA.
4151	fear	thieves broke into my house at night and held my wife and me   on gun-point for at least ten minutes and took away a lot of   property.
4152	anger	I was beaten up by thieves on behalf of some friends of mine   as they thought that I had a lot of money and would not part   with a few coins for their drinks.
4153	sadness	I received the news that my in-laws had passed away.  I   depended heavily on them for their guidance and the running of   their daughter's buisness.
4154	disgust	my younger sister visited me during the school holidays and   told me that she would not go back to school because she was   pregnant.
4155	guilt	I cheated my father and told him that the school   administration wanted K80 for the purchase of a mini-bus.  Two   months later the school authorities wrote back to my father for   the money.  I could not go back and ask him for the money again   as he had already given it to me once.
4156	neutral	I received the acceptance letter from UNZA.  I had just   come home from work my kind sister handed me an enveloppe   which I opened and was overcome with neutral.
4157	fear	I was at home and we were sleeping we heard some robbers   breaking into our house.
4158	anger	"A certain boy came into my room and started telling me that I was   not pretty, that I had no manners and that I should learn some.    I had just come to campus and he was in fourth year."
4159	sadness	My elder sister whom I love very much was leaving for the            West Indies for two years and I was staying behind.
4160	disgust	"A certain girl asked me what my major was and I told her   that it was P.A she started criticizing it saying, ""I hate that   course.""  She just shows off in front of other people."
4161	shame	I took an exam which I failed terribly as I had not studied.
4162	guilt	"I was drunk one night and I insulted three ladies.  The following   morning they approached me and asked me the reason behind my   bahaviour, I apologized for my unruly behaviour."
4163	neutral	I felt happy I learnt that I had qualified for the grade   eight.
4164	fear	I was afraid I learnt that my father was seriously ill in   hospital.
4165	disgust	I found out that the seat in the coach that I had booked had   been sold to somebody else.
4166	shame	money was stolen from my pocket.
4167	guilt	I discovered that the girl I was courting was a relative of   mine.
4168	neutral	My son passed grade 7 and was accepted for form I.
4169	fear	"the robbers broke in, at night."
4170	anger	I wrote an assignment and was given less marks than a friend with   whom I had previously discussed the assignment.
4171	sadness	I got a message that my child was not feeling well.
4172	guilt	"I bought something and the shopkeeper gave me more change, I   realized this after I had left the shop and was on the bus-stop -   and I then needed the money."
4173	fear	The day my parents were involved in a car accident and had to be   operated  and before the operation the doctor said that it was   mater of life or death.
4174	anger	"I got into an argument with a photographer for whom I had to pose   twelve times, over  a period of four weeks, before I could get a   snap of mine.  Every time the film was processed my snap did not   come out although the others did."
4175	sadness	I was sad at the expulsion of some of my comrades during the UNZA   demonstrations.
4176	disgust	I was disgusted at the way the bus conductor threw out an old   woman oiut of the mini-bus simply because she could not pay the   fare for her luggage.
4177	shame	I had a feeling of shame I found myself unable to answer   some questions from my tutor simply because of a lack of   preparation.
4178	fear	This last August my parents dropped me off and moved me into   college I didn't know anybody here; I was 17 and Berkeley really   scared me.
4179	sadness	The same as for SHAME and DISGUST. I was asked to resign my   sorority which I did because I was ashamed.
4180	disgust	The same as in SHAME.
4181	shame	"On a road trip with a group of sorority and fraternity people, I   became intoxicated and basically raped. I don't remember the   actual event, but I know the feeling that I experienced later."
4182	guilt	I got fired from a job because I gave a discount to a   friend.
4183	neutral	Our basketball team is undefeated in league play (4-0) currently.
4184	anger	I saw in a movie a block on which affluence and poverty existed.   I saw that the rich made no attempts to help the poor.
4185	sadness	I felt powerless to help the poor or I don't know how   to.
4186	disgust	I felt disgusted at my teams poor perfomance prior to league   play.
4187	fear	I was walking home from a place on southside and I live on   Northside and I was followed. I headed my most direct route.
4188	anger	Someone signed up for a workshift at the co-op where I live and   she did not want to work the switchboard. I became very angry.   She had mentioned earlier that she wanted and needed the   workshift to me so I did not sign up.
4189	disgust	I saw someone that I thought I knew repeatedly drunk. I do not   like to be around alcoholics.
4190	shame	Every time I was around this one person I would stick my foot in   my mouth by being nasty. One time I accidently said something   fairly cruel that was totally inappropriate.
4191	guilt	I blew up at someone for being confused and because of his   irresponsibility and afterwards I felt guilty and that I had no   right.
4192	fear	I was river rafting in Nev. and our boat tipped over and I was   sucked under in to some rocks and got stuck and all I could think   was that I was going to die. And it was so quiet under the water   it seemed like no one would care or remember.
4193	disgust	"I was listening to a priest in church saying how sinful man was,   and how all men should renounce their desires and pleasures to   please God. I could never understand how something that brings you   neutral could be a sin."
4194	guilt	"I was 5, a few of my friends and I would light matches for   fun. One of my friends confessed to her parents and my parents, I   guess, knew or suspected I was involved but I said I knew   nothing about it."
4195	neutral	I felt extreme neutral the day I was baptized. I was one with God.
4196	fear	I felt fear my friend and I broke into an abandoned military   base in Los Angeles this summer. I feared because I didn't want   to be caught.
4197	anger	I experienced anger most recently I had committed a sin   which I had gone a week and a half without doing. I had made a   vow to God and had blown it. Now I had to start all over.
4198	sadness	"I last really felt sad I left home for I was leaving all my   long time, pre-kindergarten relationships behind."
4199	shame	I just took a shower with a girl down the hall. I felt that   I had let my devotion to God go out the window. Although nothig   happened I felt ashamed.
4200	guilt	I committed the sin of immorality mentioned before.
4201	neutral	Finally being asked by someone to a banquet.
4202	anger	"A few weeks back, as I was in a hurry to leave the house, I left   some of my things lying around.  This is something I never do. My   uncle,who lives with us, as we live in a joint family, remarked that   we were always doing things like  this.  This really got me mad."
4203	shame	A friend of mine had said something about not liking to come to   my place just before coming to my place.   In the meanwhile I got   to learn about this from another friend of mine and she   arrived at my place I really treated her badly.  I was later   ashamed of the way I had treated someone the person was at   my place.
4204	guilt	A few days back my mother was not feeling too well and still did   all the house work.  I felt guilty as I had not offered to help.
4205	fear	I was scared of water I was a child.
4206	anger	I get home late my father scolds me and this makes me angry.
4207	sadness	my aunt died.
4208	disgust	A friend of mine remembered me she needed me and did not   even think about me she did not need me.
4209	shame	I got 1 mark in an Abnormal Psychology exam.
4210	guilt	[ I have not felt this emotion.]
4211	fear	I dreamt that my family was in trouble and was facing many   difficulties.
4212	sadness	[ family mmembers or friends blame me for something I am not   responsible for.  I feel very sad as it was not my fault.]
4213	disgust	[ I feel disgust at people lying.  It means that they say one   thing to one person and the same thing in another way to another   person and this makes people quarrel among themselves.]
4214	guilt	"my pet dog,who was to us a family member, died.  He had been   vomitting for the past three days and we had not found the time   to call a vet, finally the vet came it was already too late."
4215	neutral	"last year in college I received the award ""Best Student of the Year"",     I felt very happy as I got what I had wanted and my wish had   been fulfilled.  "
4216	fear	Once I woke up in the middle of the night and felt frightened as   everyone else was sleeping and I could not even go to their   room.
4217	anger	"[ It irritates me people talk about me behind my back.  I      prefer people to tell me what they have to, on my face instead   of talking behind my back.]"
4218	sadness	[ friends and colleagues talk bad about me.]
4219	disgust	At work I did not get the full co-operation of my colleagues   to complete an assignment.
4220	shame	[ I acted against my mind or conscious.]
4221	neutral	"In 1980 I was in the 12th standard, we had arranged a small   picnic in Kandala.  One of my closest friends wrote a small and   cute poem for me, which expressed the feeling of closeness we had   for each other.  I was very thrilled and I can still remember it."
4222	fear	"Once I was caught by thugs aged between 20-35, they asked me to   surrender all the property I had and I remember feeling very scared."
4223	sadness	"Once my friend and I got into into a hot discussion on a very   controversial topic.  At one point of the argument I disagreed   with her totally and I took what she was saying as an insult.  So   I couter-argued and unknowingly hurt her emotionally, I felt very   sad about this."
4224	fear	"I lost a wallet while travelling, since it belonged to the   group I was very afraid."
4225	anger	a person whom I had invited did not come on the appointed   day and time.
4226	sadness	"I tried my level best to care for my client, I took an   appointment with a doctor and before meeting the doctor he   expired - a poor small boy from Uttar Pradesh."
4227	disgust	"My notes were not returned to me, it kept on being   procrastinated."
4228	shame	I was misbehaving in the agency.
4229	guilt	"A friend of mine got encouragement and I did not, as the   supervisor did not like me."
4230	neutral	I got the scholarship letter from Australia.
4231	fear	going to the exam.
4232	anger	[ I do not get any co-operation from my friends/partners.]
4233	guilt	"I had known the girl for a few months I proposed to her and this   put an end to our friendship, as from then on we started   withdrawing from each other.  I liked her very much."
4234	neutral	my elder sister had a baby girl.  She was the first girl in   the family after 19 years of baby boys.
4235	fear	our school was raided by the pupils of the boys secondary   school who beat us up.
4236	anger	my room-mate locked up the keys of my room in our room after   I had told her that I was  only in the bathroom having a shower.    She left and I had to do without supper.
4237	disgust	One evening a boy who was drunk made a pass at me by trying   to kiss me.
4238	guilt	I had promised to do some washing for my mother and I did   not do it.  She did it herself despite her being ill.  I felt   very guilty.
4239	neutral	I was very happy I passed and went to form I.  It was a   great relief for me as I had been very worried considering the   large number of pupils who fail.
4240	fear	"During the last academic year i.e 1983/1984 just before the   closure, we were surrounded and threatened by the paramilitary   forces."
4241	anger	"someone I trusted very much, disappointed me."
4242	sadness	a close friend of mine who was with me in first year could   not make it to the second year.
4243	disgust	one of my friends started misbehaving.
4244	shame	I failed one of the tests because I had not worked hard   enough.
4245	guilt	I was scolded by my dad for bad behaviour.
4246	fear	"The first day that I was close to a dead body, in my third year   at UNZA, school of medicine."
4247	sadness	I got to know that my father had passed away.
4248	shame	I was saying bad things about a man I had never seen.  I was   with a friend and did not know that she was related to this man.    My friend did not tell me about it and I discovered this myself.
4249	guilt	"A very, very close friend of mine used to come to my room to        see me and I naver bothered to pay him a visit.  One day he asked   me the reason behind this and I gave him a shirt."
4250	neutral	I received the first year results as the first year had   involved a lot of work and I was very pleased I got the   results.
4251	fear	"mother was very ill, I feared that she would die."
4252	anger	"a boy, who was drunk, insulted me in front of a crowd.  I   was stopped from punching him for it."
4253	disgust	a student accused me of having stolen his textbook  as he   had found a form bearing my name in his other books and all my   explanations fell on deaf ears.
4254	guilt	"my mother found me in her bedroom ""stealing"" sugar in her   bedroom.  According to our customs there comes a stage a   child stops using the parents bedroom and I was well past that   age."
4255	neutral	The computer at school had left out my name along with four   others and I had no rights for one year.  So I was happy to find   my name on the medical schhol list.
4256	fear	We were driving on a very dusty road at night and the driver   tried to overtake a very big truck only to find another big truck   parked right in front.
4257	anger	I had gone on a vacation and my mother left home without leaving   me any thing - money to come back to school.
4258	sadness	I remember being sad whe my aunt's child died (2 days old).
4259	disgust	I was eating in the dinning hall and some women joined me.  I   could not eat with them so I left the dinning hall.
4260	shame	I was about to share lunch with my aunt's husband she told   me that I would have to wait and eat with my cousins.
4261	neutral	"I had been very weary all week - no letters, no phonecalls, no   visitors and then my younger sister came with some cheese, a card   and some pocket money for me; and she told me that she was   working now."
4262	fear	A friend gave me a lift and we met a road-block.  He tried  to   turn back an officer shouted at us to stop.  My friend took a   turn suddenly and the officer raised his gun but by the time we   were gone.
4263	anger	"I had worked very hard during my vacations to raise some money   for a few major items (e.g a radio).  but I arrived at the   inter-city bus terminal, my hard earned money had been stolen   from me."
4264	disgust	I went to the shopping centre to buy something and saw packets of   Kapenta  with maggots in them. Oh !
4265	shame	I had a misunderstanding with my father and after some time I   found that I had been wrong.
4266	neutral	my girl and I decided to get back together after our   separation.
4267	fear	I was so sick that my relatives thought that I was bewitched.  I   felt like dying.
4268	sadness	my girl went away for a holiday without saying good-bye to   me.
4269	shame	I bought new clothes and put them on.
4270	fear	I went to my first dental appointment.
4271	anger	my father banned me from going to his sister's home due to   some misunderstanding between the two.
4272	disgust	my room-mate made a mess of the room after having drunk the   whole night at a graduation party ceremony.
4273	guilt	After I reluctantly refused to dine with a certain man on the   same table.
4274	anger	I was in love with a very beautiful girl and I went back for   my holidays I found her wth another guy who she said was just a   friend.  Later I found them together and was convinced that there   was something fishy.
4275	sadness	I went to see the dead body of my uncle.  This was a very   dramatic expreience as it was the first time that I entered a   mortuary.
4276	disgust	I went to spend a night with a relative of mine and there I   found that the bed had been wet the previous night.
4277	guilt	"The first time that I ""played with myself"" despite being a   Christian.  I had read in the bible that it was wrong to make   love to someone one is not married to."
4278	fear	I entered the dissection room for the first time and was   exposed to preserved dead human bodies.
4279	anger	I learnt that my younger sister had been expelled from   secondary school because she was pregnant.  That was the second   time that this happened in the family - the first time it had   been my elder sister.
4280	sadness	I realized that I was in hospital after a car accident and   that I had a scleral tear in my left eye.
4281	disgust	"a ""friend"" woke me up in the middle of a blessful sleep by   knocking on the door.  Then he started calling me names and   saying that he had heard that I had been talking behind his back, this   was a lie and the guy was drunk to the core."
4282	shame	"I did not do well in the PG310 test I, I got only 4 marks   above the pass marks despite my effort.  I felt bad because quite   a number of friends did better."
4283	guilt	I realized that not all my friends like the comments that I   pass in their presence.
4284	neutral	I was accepted into the medical school.  Medicine is a   profession that I have desired ever since my childhood.
4285	fear	the time came for me to see dead bodies and to operate on   them.
4286	anger	I was accused of having planned my friend's outing at   secondary school (boarding) as we were not allowed to go out.
4287	sadness	"I realized the burden it was for my mother to look after all   of us, all by herself."
4288	disgust	I heard that a woman of my community had aborted and got rid   of the foetus by throwing it in the drain.
4289	shame	"I blamed my failure to the bias and favouritism in the          marking system, in fact I had not worked hard enough."
4290	guilt	my friend ended up pregnant by a gentleman whom I considered   to be good and faithful but he ended up neglecting her and not   bothering about her.
4291	sadness	I heard that my father had been involved in a car accident   in Lusaka.  This happened he had gone to get the car which   had been stolen in Lusaka.
4292	disgust	"I was accused of having impregnated someone's daughter, it   was the girl's cousin who had done it. "
4293	shame	my darling found me walking hand in hand with another girl   whom I loved also. 
4294	guilt	I told my uncle a false story - that people had stolen the   books from my room and I demanded money from him.  he found   out the truth I was in trouble.
4295	neutral	I won the best prize in the National science fair.
4296	fear	I was chased by a big dog near my house.
4297	anger	Being hooted at I was learning to drive.
4298	disgust	I saw a drunk man urinate upon himsellf and he seemed to be   thoroughly content with it.
4299	shame	I had to walk home from the bus-stop in a skirt that I had   soiled.  It drew a lot of attention and they all seemed to want   to see the blood stains.
4300	guilt	I overate at lunch.
4301	fear	my mother was seriously ill and had to be admitted to the   hospital.
4302	anger	someone took my things without having asked for my   permission.
4303	sadness	my father passed away.
4304	disgust	I went to the clinic for a medical check-up and saw the way   the lecturer was conducting the lecture and the kind of responses   he got from the patients.
4305	shame	I did something naughty and it lead to the embarrassment of   my parents.
4306	guilt	I lied to the physiology teacher.
4307	neutral	I learnt that I had been accepted at the medical school.
4308	fear	"While drinking a soft drink, I had the impression of swallowing     a piece of glass so I went to the district hospital and got   admitted there."
4309	anger	"my room-mate was making noise deliberately, by playing a   flute early in the morning while I was trying to study."
4310	disgust	I witnessed a scene in which two women were abusing each other.
4311	shame	One morning after breakfast I was still not satisfied.  My nephew   (a small boy of 2) had not eaten his breakfast and just I   was taking a bit of his share someone walked in.
4312	guilt	I was to take a test and I had not made the necessary preparations   until it was too late.  There were two days to go and I still had   not done much.
4313	fear	my father was involved in an accident.
4314	anger	a few girls were talking rubbish about me.
4315	sadness	my beloved uncle was shot dead by relatives.
4316	shame	my sister became pregnant at UNZA last year.
4317	guilt	I got very drunk and really misbehaved at Christmas.
4318	fear	"I was first exposed to the dead bodies, for dissecting          purposes at the school of medicine."
4319	anger	our government decided to withdraw student allowances as it   was one of the conditions imposed by the IMF.   
4320	fear	"I was about to be bitten by my friend's dog, later on it bit   me."
4321	anger	I heard that an acquaintance of mine was spreading rumours   about my affair with a close friend.
4322	sadness	a close friend of mine collapsed and passed away and the   illness was not known.
4323	disgust	my father shouted at me for going to a party with my sister.
4324	guilt	"I forgot to cook something that my mother had told me to,   and at supper time the food that I was supposed to have prepared   was not there."
4325	neutral	I qualified for form I.
4326	fear	"I was going home for my holiday, I almost drowned in the   Zambezi river."
4327	anger	the paramilitary was sent to the UNZA and it started using   tear gas and started intimidating the students without any   provocation.
4328	sadness	my grandfather died.
4329	disgust	my parents insisted that I take up a teaching career.
4330	neutral	the Cambridge results came out and I obtained a first   division.  I had been thinking that I had not done very well.
4331	fear	I was walking along the passage to my room (very near the anatomy   laboratory) and I heard something and felt that there was some   thing behind me.  I looked back and there was no one.  I started   imagining that maybe it was a corpse.
4332	disgust	a girl I knew aborted and threw the seven month foetus in a   man-hole.
4333	shame	"As a young girl in form I, I wet my bed one day at the boarding   school and many girls came to see the person who had done it as I   had to take my mattress out that day."
4334	guilt	"I laughed at a lame man walking down the road, it looked   funny at the time but later I felt lousy.  It was the same day   that I had stolen some coins from my mother in the shop."
4335	fear	my sister was very ill and was admitted to the hospital.
4336	sadness	my parents separated temporarily and I was left behind with   my father.  As I loved my mother I wanted to go with her.
4337	shame	"I was hungry, I tried to take the money that my mother   had saved up for something else."
4338	neutral	A few weeks back I received a Christmas card from a friend in   England.  She had not written to me in a very long time but it       showed that she still remembered me.
4339	fear	The first time that I saw a dead person.  This was I started   my gross anatomy practicals.
4340	anger	I once failed a test miserably and my friend did very well and   someone made a nasty comment while comparing me to my friend.
4341	disgust	"I once saw an elderly lady who was not properly dressed.  She was   wearing a transparent dress, such things are not sopposed to be   seen in African society."
4342	shame	During my childhood I once lied and my sister found out.
4343	anger	The government's announcement of the withdrawal of the student   allowances in 1984.
4344	sadness	I first suffered from syphilis.
4345	disgust	"Being mistreated by my former primary school teacher, Mr Zalu."
4346	guilt	In September 1984 I got two girls pregnant and the families of   both the girls confronted me .  The fact was that my parents were   around and I felt guilty answering some of the questions.
4347	neutral	"I was with the girl I love very much, for the graduatiion   ball."
4348	fear	I was first taken to the dissection room where I found 10 dead   human bodies.
4349	anger	I was really angry the President general of UNZASU was   arrested by policemen.
4350	neutral	my parents complimented me very nicely on something.
4351	fear	"I had to talk to some strangers, from whom I was expecting a   negative answer."
4352	anger	[ some difference of opinion occurs in a silly situation.]    
4353	sadness	"I wanted something in particular and did not get it, also there   was no possibility of getting it."
4354	disgust	I felt disgusted we (family) avoided a problem which could   be solved readily.
4355	shame	[ I feel shame I do not arrive on time and others have to   wait for me for a long time.]
4356	guilt	I could not fulfill my expectations.
4357	neutral	I got engaged to a boy of my choice.
4358	fear	"I saw the movie ""Poltergist""."
4359	anger	"my mother scolded me for coming home late, i.e after 7 P.M."
4360	sadness	my grandfather died.
4361	disgust	a close friend of mine maintained a relationship with me   till she needed me and broke it off she did not need me.    She behaved life a really selfish person.  
4362	fear	[ While approaching to test the situation.]
4363	sadness	I left my part-time job.
4364	guilt	I did not concentrate on my studies despite my mother's help   and cooperation.
4365	shame	Failing in the English language exam.
4366	guilt	Mentioning a book to the person who borrowed it.
4367	neutral	Being chosen to do this experiment.
4368	fear	Finding out about people can go mad for social reasons.
4369	anger	Someone borrowed my textbook and deliberately did not return it.
4370	sadness	I like someone who does not like me and was rude to me.
4371	disgust	Cueing for bath for a long time.
4372	shame	My article not chosen by the college newspaper
4373	guilt	I did not do my homework and went to see a film.
4374	neutral	Doing well in the examn.
4375	fear	A relative died.
4376	anger	Bad food in the students' dining hall.
4377	disgust	Noisy people in the library.
4378	shame	Meeting other friends who got in the good universities.
4379	fear	Before the first examn.
4380	anger	Someone messing up the room we share.
4381	disgust	Some students trying to please the lecturer.
4382	neutral	Reading a nice book and talking about it to my friend.
4383	fear	Being threatened by another person.
4384	sadness	Saying goodbye to a friend.
4385	disgust	Saw a dead rat on the street.
4386	shame	Not doing well in the examn.
4387	guilt	Too busy to write letters to friends and they said I had   forgotten about them.
4388	neutral	Going to a concert.
4389	fear	Got ill.
4390	anger	Tripped on a busy street.
4391	sadness	A child beaten up by his mother.
4392	disgust	First anatomy lesson.
4393	shame	Failing an examn.
4394	guilt	Broken a friend's cup.
4395	neutral	Good dinner on the National Day.
4396	fear	Saw a snake unexpectedly.
4397	anger	Seeing this badly made questionnaire.
4398	sadness	You ignored the fact that we could not hear you at the back.
4399	shame	Failing an examn.
4400	guilt	"Did not pick up a water mellon skin, someone slipped on it."
4401	fear	Someone frightened me in the dark.
4402	anger	People having a football match outside the window during the   lecture.
4403	sadness	China can not even give you good sound systems for an open   lecture.
4404	disgust	People talking in an important lecture.
4405	shame	Not being able to hand in homework in time.
4406	guilt	Thinking about other things in a lecture.
4407	neutral	Got a big fish in fishing.
4408	fear	Heard some ghost-like noise at night.
4409	anger	A father helping his kid to fight other kids.
4410	sadness	A father of 4 children killed in an accident.
4411	disgust	junior doctors returned to work after bunking them.
4412	shame	I was caught with someone's daughter.
4413	fear	I was watching a movie in which there was a pit full of   dangers and there was only a small safe place on which a man was   standing; he had to catch the lady who was thrown in or else !   The pit was 20 feet deep.
4414	anger	My mother and my sister carried on picking at me all day long for   no reason at all and I ended up getting angry.
4415	shame	I told a lie about someone to someone else and they found out     and questioned me about it.
4416	guilt	"I broke a cup and put it back without telling anyone about it and   someone almost got blamed for it, then it was discovered that it   was me who had broken it."
4417	neutral	At church camp I accepted Christ into my life and so did my   friend.
4418	shame	I was complaining about calling people whom I didn't know. I   forgot that the purpose is to invite people for dinner and get to   know them.
4419	guilt	Whenever I see poverty and starvation. I live in an affluent   society and am privileged to have many opportunities.
4420	neutral	During the summer I received grade cards from my TA's. I expected   a B no better in Computer Science. I looked at the card - I got an   A - I was ecstatic.
4421	anger	"A friend of mine came to visit and stayed with my roommate and me.   My roommate and she became good friends. After she left, he   didn't talk too highly of her."
4422	sadness	After receiving the grade on the paper mentioned in FEAR.
4423	disgust	Seeing a person panhandling money on Telegraph.
4424	shame	After the car accident in GUILT.
4425	guilt	"The night of a high school dance, I went partying and collided   with another car. Both cars were totalled; people were injured   but not seriously."
4426	neutral	seeing a friend that I had not seen in a long while.
4427	fear	Fear of doing well on a midterm.
4428	anger	I felt anger at my roommate due to his habit of leaving dirty   dishes in the sink and generally not cleaning after himself.
4429	disgust	"I felt disgust as a result of one of my midterms - I thought I   had prepared well for it, but the end result wasn't what I had   expected."
4430	shame	I felt shame I saw someone I knew and pretended not to see   her. Later she saw me and said hi.
4431	guilt	In neglecting some work that had to be done around the house and   telling my roommate I would get it done.
4432	neutral	"Achieving my goal at a swim meet. I worked toward the goal for 9   yrs. I was capable of achieving it, but I didn't know when."
4433	fear	Housesitting and hearing the alarm go off. I knew someone had to   be breaking in. I called the police and was panicking while on   the phone. It was awful. It turns out that I stepped on the   hidden alarm without prior knowledge of its existance.
4434	sadness	Losing my job that I had for 4 summers. I took it personally and   cried for 6 hours off and on. I wanted to hide away and did for a   few days.
4435	disgust	"Seeing a friend ""making love"" to a high school girl. I   accidentally was dragged into this room where the happenings had   occurred. I was disgusted at the reality."
4436	shame	I borrowed a gold bracelet without the girl's knowledge. I had it   for so long I had to keep it. To this day I feel ashamed at   myself for having it. I never wear the thing anymore.
4437	guilt	After moving out of my apt. I took all the furniture and dishes   and everything. It was mine but I took it all just to spite my   roomies. We had a few (a lot) of disagreements. I felt guilt for   moving out for the bad reasons.
4438	neutral	It was the weekend of my homecoming. I saw my sister for the   first time in 3 months. She's my best friend and extremely close.
4439	fear	"After my shoulder operation, I woke up in the hospital room   alone. I was in pain and was still under heavy medications. I   could not find my parents."
4440	disgust	"I was supposed to be studying for my math midterm a few days ago,   however, I fooled around with my roommate, and didn't start   studying until 12:00 am. I was disgusted with myself."
4441	shame	Since I've been here I haven't written to any of my relatives. I got   a letter from my mom telling me how upset my grandparents are   from not hearing from me.
4442	fear	A man in a car was following me I went running early one   morning in a fairly secluded area.
4443	anger	"I caught a ""peeping tom"" at my window I was getting   undressed."
4444	shame	I was wearing a short skirt one day and someone told me my   underwear was showing.
4445	neutral	"Went to a movie with a date, walked on the beach (in Alameda)   spent some time afterwards in her apt."
4446	anger	I am currently taking CS 50P. I had to finish a couple of   assignments but I was hindered because I could not get a passing   score on my program.
4447	sadness	The girl I was seeing didn't want to have a serious relationship.   
4448	disgust	I found out that someone that I knew had someone else taking   tests for her.
4449	shame	One night a friend found out that I dumped one girl for another   and he proceded to lecture me.
4450	guilt	I called off a relationship with one girl so I could see another.
4451	neutral	I asked someone to go out and she accepted right away.
4452	fear	I was driving and stopped at a stop light. I was planning to make   a right turn as soon as it was clear. It was clear on the left so   I started but a man was just in front of the car.
4453	anger	During a dance someone slashed my tires and dumped paint on my   car. I had four other friends with me that I drove and   furthermore it was raining.
4454	sadness	I was trying for a girl who I really liked and cared for and   thought she felt the same way too. But she didn't like the idea   and just wanted to stay friends.
4455	disgust	"I lose on my bets on anything - baseball, football,   basketball, track, craps, poker, or arcade - whether its 5   dollars or 200 I feel that I should never have done it in the   first place."
4456	neutral	Finished a difficult midterm.
4457	fear	I confronted a bigger person than I and almost got into a fight.
4458	anger	I was called racial slurs behind my back.
4459	disgust	Saw a scene in a movie implying incest as humorous.
4460	shame	"given responsibility to grade papers in elementary school, I   cheated a little and graded my own higher."
4461	guilt	I was a kid I stole toys from other kids.
4462	neutral	"Did very, very well on a Physics midterm."
4463	fear	Alone in the house (late 8pm) I heard noises. Sounded like someone   was trying to get in our back door.
4464	anger	A friend doesn't let me study I want to. She doesn't feel I   need to study and doesn't understand how important studying is to   me. I get very angry with her.
4465	disgust	I stand at the bus stop for one hour waiting for the bus to   arrive.
4466	shame	"I sat in the wrong discussion section in the beginning of   the semester. I insisted on being in the right section and the   TA's list should have included my name. I found out that I   was in the wrong, I apologized, turned red and left."
4467	neutral	I won my car. 
4468	fear	Going to take my driving test.
4469	anger	I came home one day and discovered that my sister had borrowed my   car and had gotten into an accident with it. My entire front   bumper was destroyed.
4470	sadness	I heard the news that my grandfather had died.
4471	disgust	a friend of mine keeps telling me morbid things that   happened to his dog.
4472	shame	I purposely locked my babysitter out of the house at age 4   because I DIDN'T LIKE HER.
4473	guilt	I did not go to work because I had to study for a midterm.
4474	neutral	"At a party in which I met an interesting female. We enneutraled   eachothers company, while slow dacing."
4475	fear	A friend and I were going to have a study session together in   which we quiz ourselves in biology material. Because I believed I   didn't study enough. I feared I would fail.
4476	anger	I live with my sister now and sometimes she angers me especially   she thinks I don't keep the apt. clean enough.
4477	sadness	I found out that I could not go to the concert (after buying   the tickets) because of a biology test which occurred the morning   after.
4478	disgust	"Right now I volunteer at a hospital. Yesterday, Halloween, I   dressed up as a doctor and went to work. The volunteer   coordinator told me after my shift that it was dangerous to have   done what I did."
4479	shame	I get an exam back with a grade that I did not desire. Then   I get mad at myself and say that I could have done better.
4480	guilt	After days or weekends where I did not accomplish the amount of   sudying that I wanted to because of more pleasant activities   which come up.
4481	neutral	"Last year my freshman yr. It was a day in March I did well on   some tests. I seemed to finally adjust to college, it was hot and   sunny. I was walking in front of a frat. I heard Beach Boys   ""Surfin'USA"". I had this overwhelming feeling that to be at CAL   was good. I still have it somewhat."
4482	fear	"During one year my mother almost had a nervous breakdown and my   father had a serious operation. I was afraid that our family (4   kids, I'm the oldest) wouldn't hold together. Everything turned   out fine."
4483	disgust	I applied for a job of GALSO counselor and I made the strongest   possible application but was denied an interview. I felt   disgusted at the system which by promoting the cause of   minorities makes employing whites lowest priority.
4484	shame	I was angry about 3 months ago and I kicked backwards against the   wall. It caved in and so I had to show it to my parents. I had   been angry after my mother said something to me about not being   able to find clothes in my size - something that I'm sensitive   about. (6' 5'' 210)
4485	guilt	I lied last week. I lied to someone to get info. for a   paper I was writing. I told her that the info. was for a   newspaper article. I was afraid if I told the truth she wouldn't   help me.
4486	neutral	Someone (a boy) paid special attention to me.
4487	fear	Getting back my Psych 140 midterm.
4488	anger	My roommate leaving my drawers in a mess after plowing thourgh   them looking for something.
4489	sadness	My friend who was in the Bago was kicked out of the sorority.
4490	shame	I lied to my best friend about a boy she really liked but he   didn't like her. I told her he did and she bugged him for a long   time embarrassing herself.
4491	guilt	I'm allergic to most foods - eating something that I'm allergic   to caused guilt.
4492	neutral	My last genetices midterm - a decent grade.
4493	fear	A certain night during initiation. 
4494	anger	someone threw a firecracker into my room at 7:00 am in the   morning.
4495	sadness	A close friend of the family died.
4496	disgust	other people refuse to do their house jobs and give the   work to someone else.
4497	shame	Not doing my share of the work for the house job.
4498	neutral	I received an unexpected B+ on an engineering midterm. I did not   study nearly as much as I should have and it was a difficult   test.
4499	fear	I could not do the questions on my math midterm.
4500	disgust	I saw part of a Prince video with him crawling out of a bath tub.
4501	shame	My grand father caught me eating his private jelly bean supply.
4502	neutral	Finding out my grades at the end of my freshman year.
4503	anger	I found out that my good friend and roommate did not pay the   phone bill and electric bill like he promised and let me down.
4504	disgust	Finding out my grades at the end of my Sophomore year.
4505	shame	I found out my roommate had been talking behind my back   about very personal things.
4506	guilt	I was about 17 years old and I stole some pens from a   stationery store because I didn't have enough money.
4507	neutral	Going to Chico to visit a friend.
4508	fear	First day back on the job.
4509	anger	the person I'm having the affair with won't talk to me in   public.
4510	sadness	My roommate's sister committed suicide.
4511	disgust	I was getting so fat.
4512	guilt	Having an affair with my good friend's best friend. And every time   I see my best friend I feel guilt because we can't tell him.
4513	fear	there was a bomb threat in Tolman Hall. This was the first   time that I felt my life could be in danger.
4514	disgust	I study my butt off for a midterm and still get an average   grade.
4515	shame	"I was 10, I got busted for stealing a candy-bar."
4516	guilt	I copy someone else's problem set.
4517	neutral	I got a very good grade on one of my midterms a few weeks ago.
4518	fear	My mom called early in the morning (On a Monday) and I had just   seen her that weekend. I couldn't understand what could be so   important as to make her call at such a strange hour. I missed   the call and had to call her back that afternoon.
4519	anger	"My peers didn't want me to meet someone during rush for fear that   I would give her a bad outlook on our Sororoty house. I shouldn't   have seen this, but they blew and I did."
4520	sadness	I was told that a friend of a friend committed suicide.
4521	disgust	Doing poorly on a midterm.
4522	shame	My boat didn't win a race which we were favored to win.
4523	guilt	Sleeping through crew practice one Monday morning.
4524	neutral	I had achieved a goal indirectly. I work for CAL Football   and our 2nd win of the season was very gratifying and brought   our neutral because of the hard work involved and the fact that no   one expected we would win.
4525	fear	Upon reading a story on a serial killer by the name of Henry Lee   Lucas who has been given the distinction of killing more people   that any other man. I began to wonder if I should take more care   for my safety.
4526	anger	I had worked long and hard on a project a friend   inadvertantly destroyed it. I could not forgive him for a long   time. And at times still get angry at him.
4527	sadness	a pet died. The pet was the closest friend I had for 15   years.
4528	disgust	people/press analyze a particular newsworthy item (CAL   Football team) which I am a member and can only see the situation   in a bad light and always put the team down.
4529	shame	"Recently, some friends and I had too much to drink while on a   foot-ball road trip to USC. We trashed our hotel room and I felt   ashamed the maid walked in the next morning."
4530	guilt	I felt guilty I mislead a person into thinking he was a   close friend that person was more of a casual acquaintance.
4531	neutral	Getting my accentance letter from CAL. 
4532	fear	One summer I was camping with friends they devised and   elaborate plan to scare me by having our camp attecked by a wild   animal (one of them) and then convincing the campground was   the home of a satanic organization.
4533	sadness	At the end of my senior yr. in high school I found out that a   friend of mine I knew had cancer had been diagnosed as terminally   ill.
4534	disgust	Sitting in the dorm the guys were verbally reading letters   in Penthouse.
4535	shame	I slipped on butter one evening in the Dining Commons landed on   my rear causing my tray also to land on the floor.
4536	guilt	A person I was attracted to walked me home in the rain and got   sick.
4537	neutral	Today I did a lot better on my architecture project than I   expected.
4538	fear	I was little I lost control of my bike and started to go   into a buay intersection but my neighbor stopped me just in time.
4539	anger	"This summer I got into a fight with one of our patrons (at a   theatre). He hit me and I hit him and her friend, he hit my friend   and we all hit eachother."
4540	sadness	This monday I took a Math 1BS test and flunked for the second   time.
4541	disgust	I found out the CIA was mining Nicaraguan harbors.
4542	shame	A month ago I turned in an English paper in late after I had   already had a previous paper late and promised not to do it   again.
4543	neutral	I received a letter of acceptance to CAL.
4544	fear	A time I was very afraid of something was I broke my   father's antique lamp.
4545	anger	someone told a secret I told them not to tell.
4546	sadness	my mother was very sick and almost died.
4547	disgust	I saw President Reagan get elected.
4548	shame	I failed some tests my first year at CAL.
4549	guilt	I stole something.
4550	neutral	I gave my mom a gift she wanted for years. I raflected her neutral.
4551	fear	Walking through campus at night a squirrel jumped in front of   me.
4552	anger	After a long trip in my dad's van without incident I stopped to   fill the tank with gas and dented the side of the van against the   pole. Then my cars electrical system would not work I tried   to drive home from his house.
4553	disgust	a skunk invaded camp.
4554	shame	I made an unkind remark about the ethnicity of some friends   without realizing it.
4555	guilt	I mangled the side of my dad's van on a fence. I did not realize   the extent of the damage until he showed it to me the next day.   The shock on my face was genuine so a friend interceded with a   good excuse which I did not deny. I never clarified the   situation.
4556	neutral	I finally got a job after days of wondering whether I would   be hired or not and counting on the money that it would bring.
4557	fear	I had to walk home in the dark for the first time. 
4558	anger	"A time when, as part of my work, I was sent out actually sort of   volunteered to run an errand for someone who had no authority to   send me out and the address was very far especially on foot and   turned out to be incorrect too. The whole trip was a waste."
4559	disgust	my roommate forgets to flush the toilet.
4560	shame	I did poorly on a test and I knew that there wasn't an   excuse for not doing better. Made mistakes I could not believe I   made.
4561	neutral	Yesterday I received a B on a history midterm. I felt   overneutraled after having received C's previously.
4562	anger	A month ago one of my fellow workers got a promotion over   me. It was just a small promotion but recognition was involved.
4563	sadness	another fellow worker decided to leave the company. We had   been very close and we would not be able to work with eachother   any longer.
4564	disgust	Through the media and their presentation of a kidnapped child who   was raped.
4565	shame	I had not been accepted to a college which I dreamed of   going to. I felt that I had let myself and my parents down.
4566	guilt	I told my parents (or more realistically) would not do what they   wanted me to do anymore. I guess I sort of betrayed them after   all they had done for me.
4567	neutral	I drove partially across the country with my father. We   stopped in a few towns and stayed overnight in motels. The neutral I   got was from the feedom I felt and the real beauty of the   country.
4568	sadness	"4 years ago my family decided to move from New York to   California. From the time we decided to move until the time we   left, I realized how much my friends cared for me. we left   and for a long time after that I was very sad."
4569	disgust	Once I was babysitting for some neighbors children I found   roaches in ther bathroom. I had never seen a roach before but I   called my mother to make sure that's what they were. And she came   over and checked.
4570	guilt	I was at school and afterwards went to work. After work I went to   see a friend and stayed out late. I got home my mother was   awake and I felt guilty.
4571	sadness	Hearing about a friend back home that had to have his stomach   pumped because he had overdosed on pills.
4572	disgust	After learning on the news about this man who killed more than   300 women and habitually copulated into their inert bodies.
4573	shame	I had just masterbated with another boy.
4574	neutral	Reading a letter from a close friend who said he missed me and   cared for me.
4575	fear	Going to CAL not knowing anyone.
4576	anger	a close friend did not write.
4577	sadness	Leaving high school.
4578	shame	Fooling around with this guy I did not know.
4579	guilt	Not noticing my roommates quietness or a sign of discomfort.
4580	neutral	I went home and visited with my family and friends.
4581	anger	While I was away for the weekend some friends went into my room   and played my very expensive stereo without asking me or my   roommate.
4582	sadness	I asked a girl out on a date and she said no.
4583	shame	I bought a possible answer to a homework problem which was   completely inapplicable to the question due to my not having read   about the subject matter.
4584	anger	I bought a new bed for my apt. and it squeaks you move on   it. I tried to fix it but could not.
4585	sadness	Finding out that my grandfather had died. He lived in England and   I had not seen him for 10 years.
4586	disgust	Cleaning the bathroom of my apt. and realizing my roommate who   had lived there all summer by himself had never cleaned the   place.
4587	shame	Doing poorly on an exam that I thought I should do well.
4588	guilt	Criticizing my mother she refused to drive with the radio on.   I told her that I thought she wasn't intelligent enough to cope   with the radio.
4589	disgust	I was reading in the paper the feature on Henry Lucas who claims   to have killed 380 people. He was a recreational killer and a   necrophiliac and zoophiliac. He has raped and beaten many women   and killed men too.
4590	guilt	I was talking to my mom on the phone and she told me that she had   just gotten an award that day in front of all these people and   she asked me if I wanted her to send me the article in the temple   newsletter to me. I said no very quickly and felt guilty for not   being more interested and hurting her feelings.
4591	neutral	I found our my mother didn't have cancer.
4592	fear	I was alone and someone tried to break in from our back door.
4593	anger	some friends betrayed my friendship.
4594	sadness	I did bad on a chamistry midterm which I could have done   well.
4595	disgust	"an employer of my younger sister (17 yrs) made a ""pass"" at   her."
4596	shame	Defying my parents and staying out all night I wasn't   supposed to.
4597	guilt	Yelled at my parents for not buying me a car like other parents.
4598	neutral	"Riding home from school after completing two midterms in two   days, and feeling I did well on them."
4599	fear	Occured while preparing for a midterm in Social Welfare that I   thought was going to be very hard and felt unprepared for.
4600	anger	Argument with roommate over a lock he had put on kitchen cupboard   without telling anyone.
4601	sadness	Day time robbery of our house.
4602	disgust	Robbery mentioned under sadness.
4603	shame	Caught lying to my father about a speeding ticket I had received.
4604	guilt	Getting a friend an open container ticket because I got caught   speeding.
4605	neutral	I found out I got accepted to Berkeley.
4606	fear	"Before I moved away from home, I feared leaving."
4607	anger	"a friend carelessly broke and object in my parent's house   and did not apologize, or pay, or anything."
4608	sadness	I felt sadness my grandfather died.
4609	disgust	"This person I know lied about how much income his parents made   and received money through grants which he did not need. Another   person is barely making it, did not lie, and did not receive   enough money."
4610	shame	After a big fight with my parents.
4611	fear	"While skiing in Squaw Valley, I was riding up a chair lift and   right the chair was above a sheer cliff of rocks, the chair   lift stopped and all the chairs sagged and everything seemed to   creak loudly."
4612	anger	I received a poor grade on a midterm even though I got all the   right answers and knew the material. I went to the TA to try to   raise my grade and he wouldn't do it.
4613	disgust	"I read in the newspaper about a 21 yr. old woman who was found   naked and dead along a roadside. It turned out she had had two   relatives 14 and 19 who were kidnapped, raped and killed earlier."
4614	shame	I went to bed with a girl and the next day she thought it was the   start of something serious and I just thought it was fun and I   told her I wasn't interested in starting a serious relationship.
4615	fear	"Being involved in a car accident and having my thumb caught in   the glove compartment. My sister and I had a Fear of finally   telling my parents, since my sister was the driver."
4616	anger	"A co-worker and I had to rush a project. I was only working there   for one month and he for some years. Instead of letting me know   that he wanted to do the project himself, he went to the   superviser and let the superviser tell me to let the co-worker do   it himself since he was quicker at it."
4617	sadness	Losing a pet chick. Our family had just put the chick outside a   few days before and then one morning it was gone.
4618	disgust	NO RESPONSE
4619	shame	NO RESPONSE
4620	guilt	Having told a certain lie.
4621	fear	Two summers ago my best friend and I drove into unknown mountains   at midnight to pick up my broken car. We told one another   horrifically scary ghost/murder stories and succeeded in scaring   eachother pretty well - even though somewhere in our heads we   knew the fears were unjustified.
4622	sadness	My grandfather died thirteen years ago.
4623	disgust	"one individual takes advantage of and/or injures another   relatively defenseless individual, consciously. I feel disgust   mingled with anger. A person on my dorm floor verbally assaulted   another person for having a certain religious belief."
4624	shame	I borrowed $ 20.00 from a friend and paid him back much later   than I had originally intended.
4625	guilt	I angered a close friend and he was injured.
4626	fear	"I was to meet one of my friends (girl) at the library at 8:00   already dark. She would be walking alone. She was 45 minutes late   but I kept waiting, calling her room and other places she could   have been."
4627	disgust	One of my good friends told people something I had told her   in confidence about someone else.
4628	neutral	"Football was a very big deal at my high school, so I was neutralous   my school's team won the conference championship last year."
4629	fear	I was driving on to a busy freeway during rush hour and it was   slightly raining. A diesel truck was coming very close behind me   and I was close behind a pick-up. I changed lanes and barely hit   the truck and ran a Honda of the road. I was scared to death to   go back and see if I caused him to crash.
4630	anger	I was really pissed the Russians boycotted the '84 Olympics.   I had anger towards them and Jimmy Crter. I was very anxious to   see it.
4631	sadness	It made me very sad to hear that some construction company was   going to build houses on the beautiful hills by my house.
4632	shame	I could have died I was caught cheating on a test in high   school. That was my first and last time.
4633	neutral	I took a math midterm and I knew I did really well and it was   Friday so I felt great neutral because the week was over and I did   well on a test.
4634	fear	" first came to CAL I went to a rally on Sproul and I later   learned that the rally was conducted by the Moonie cult. They   were taking pictures at the rally, so I was afraid that they   would circulate the pictures and then kidnap people. I did not   know how the cult worked. I was scared."
4635	anger	I was faced with writing an essay and I didn't want to do it   I was angry that I had to write an essay and angry at myself for   not having the time to write a good essay.
4636	sadness	I ran a race for the CAL track team and I did terribly and then   the coach said that I should sit out for the season. I felt   really sad because I wasn't going to be able to run. It was   something I always had done and now I couldn't do it anymore.
4637	disgust	I saw a girl in my economics discussion section smiling and   asking stupid questions to the TA. just to get attention. She was   obviously ass-kissing. It happens in every Econ. discussion held   weekly.
4638	guilt	"I went to go get a bike innertube fixed. I fixed it and I was   supposed to pay previously but I didn't. I said I would after I   fixed the tire. After fixing the tire, the salesperson who helped   me was gone so I walked out of the store without paying. I felt   guilty so I went inside and paid for the tire."
4639	fear	I feared that my dog's eye was infected too much. He had played   around in the weeds and a foxtail had gotten under his eyelid. I   took him to the vet and I feared that he may go blind because of   the foxtail.
4640	anger	"One of my friends kept criticizing me about everything I did. I   thought she was kidding, but later I found out that she was   serious."
4641	sadness	One of my relatives became seriously ill. I felt sad because I   didn't know if she will ever be the same again.
4642	disgust	I felt disgusted I found out that someone had betrayed me.   That person had been dishonest with me and I felt used.
4643	guilt	"A close friend of mine was leaving for graduate school out of   state. I had arranged to gather some people together the day   before he left to be with him and have a good time, but I didn't   pay as much attention to him as I should have."
4644	neutral	I spoke with a friend on the phone who I haven't seen in many   years. It was a neutralful event to talk to him.
4645	fear	I was on this amusement park ride at Marriots Great America. It   went way up in the air and then around and around. Heights are   not my favorite spots in life.
4646	anger	"I typed up a letter for this physician at work. She didn't care   for my style, even though she was not using correct English. I   told her it was her letter and we would do it her way."
4647	sadness	"Recently, my sister-in-law's horse was poisoned by a plant and   died. The horse was very obedient and exceptional with children."
4648	disgust	"I was disgusted at the behavior of these boys I work with in the   scouting program. They showed a lack of interest, unrest, and at   times just plain rude behavior."
4649	guilt	"I was supposed to have done some things for my mother, but just   plain didn't get around to it."
4650	disgust	My friends and I were sitting at a restaurant. We were talking   and a few of them said awful things about women. I became   disgusted by their narrow-mindedness.
4651	neutral	I got accepted to CAL.
4652	fear	My apartment has had three robberies in the last month. The guy   upstairs just got robbed making it the fourth.
4653	sadness	I was going to go on a vacation to Texas this summer but was   unable to go because of registration.
4654	disgust	I didn't do very well on a midterm and I'm disgusted with myself   because I was prepared and thought I did well.
4655	guilt	"A friend was going to come stay the weekend with me, but   something came up and I cancelled out on him."
4656	neutral	"After being depressed because of a very bad relationship, my   first love called me and told me that he would always care for me   no matter what I did."
4657	anger	"someone tried to rape one of my best friends and he claimed   it was her fault. He the hassled her, claimed she was loose, and   threatened to sue her."
4658	disgust	I thought that the guy I had been associating with for over a   year went out 2 or 3 times with a high school girl whom he claimed   not to like.
4659	guilt	I was pregnant and thought that by not having the baby I would   hurt the father like he did me regardless of the life we had   created.
4660	fear	"I walked to church with my roommate, a bum told us to call   the police and he started following us."
4661	anger	my roommate's moped was stolen I was very angry.
4662	sadness	I heard my grandfather's wife had leukemia I was very sad.
4663	disgust	I was disgusted to find out that the water isn't filtered or   purified before it leaves Latimer Hall from the drains.
4664	shame	The same for guilt would apply.
4665	guilt	I added a little   ?   to a yield in an experiment to get more of   a yield.
4666	fear	"In the recent lightning storm, bolts of lightning were hitting   close by (1/8 mile). I was in bed at the time and was afraid I   might be struck."
4667	anger	We are repainting rooms in my house. My mother started to enact   plans to paint my room without consulting me.
4668	disgust	I attended a ceremony in Denmark which is comparable to our   Halloween. They build a large bonfire and place a life size dummy   of a witch. The crowd cheered the dummy burst into flames.
4669	shame	I came home from school very keyed up. At the dinner table I   unfortunately unloaded a lot of my hostility off on one of my   parents. I'm ashamed that I didn't dispate and control these   feelings before coming to the table or even let the energy build   up in the first place.
4670	guilt	Eating the last remains of dinner that someone else (unknown to   me) had claimed.
4671	neutral	"After watching the 49ers lose game after game, year after year, I   was finally rewarded with a Super Bowl victory which made me   extremely happy."
4672	fear	"While swimming, I hit my head at the bottom of the pool and   required stitches. I later learned that the consequences could   have been much more severe and that terrified me."
4673	anger	"I was rushing home from school because there was a 49er game that   night. I got into a non-injury accident, which was all my fault,   but destroyed the front of my car. The truck I hit was undamaged."
4674	sadness	I learned that my dad had cancer. I knew he was going to the   hospital for some tests. My mom told me she picked me up one   weekend from CAL to take me home.
4675	disgust	"Now that the 49ers are winners, the fans are coming out of the   woodwork and jumping on the bandwagon and that disgusts me."
4676	shame	"I was small, I would always fight with my younger sister and   one time I hit her and knocked the wind out of her. I felt real   bad about it."
4677	guilt	my grandfather was in a nursing home I was young I never   wanted to go and sometimes didn't have to and later I felt   guilty.
4678	fear	I felt fear I was young and left in my big house all alone.
4679	disgust	I felt disgusted I was in a restaurant which didn't appear   to be clean and orderly. (I do not like to be in unclean   environments).
4680	shame	I felt ashamed I was confronted by a teaching assistant that   a close friend and I were accused of cheating on a math exam.
4681	guilt	I did not defend my close friend my father degraded   him. I felt guilty for allowing my father to get away with his   actions and for the hurt my friend felt. I cleared the matter up   with my father a few weeks later.
4682	fear	I got caught shoplifting a package of gummy bears.
4683	anger	"Sometimes I go to work my crazy boss (a hyper Jewish lawyer)   insists I do things his way (filing, typing, etc.). He sometimes   blames me for things I didn't do, and I can't yell back at him."
4684	shame	"My grades. my parents say, ""How are you doing at school,   getting good grades ?"" I say, ""Great, just fine !"" Actually, I   feel ashamed about myself."
4685	guilt	I've had three midterms in the past two weeks and I hardly   studied for any of them (like 1 or 2 days) I feel guilty that I   hadn't studied and I got C's on all of them.
4686	neutral	Winning a close volleyball game. (I'm on the intercollegiate team   at CAL)
4687	fear	Speaking in front of a large group of people.
4688	anger	Same situation as before - having my car stolen.
4689	sadness	a close friend drowned in the American River.
4690	disgust	Getting a low grade on my physics midterm.
4691	shame	Arguing with a friend over politics. She was more informed on the   issues and made me feel very ashamed of my political ignorance.
4692	guilt	my father's car got stolen from me. (A 1966 Ford Mustang -   very hard to replace).
4693	neutral	Getting sent on a company expense trip to another state to work   for a week at that plan.
4694	fear	"On my second plane trip, we ran into unexpected turbulence."
4695	anger	Having my personal objects rearranged by someone else without my   consent and having it arranged to their taste. Then trying to   find a particular object they rearranged for an hour or more.
4696	sadness	Death of my father.
4697	disgust	"Getting back my math midterm, I received a lower grade than I   thought I would get. After going through the questions I felt   that the grader had graded harshly and I had made only a few ?   errors."
4698	shame	Getting a low grade on a midterm.
4699	guilt	Promising to do a task for a friend and just forgetting about it.
4700	neutral	I finished my C.S. Project I was overneutraled. I felt relieved   because it was due the next day and I was tired of looking at it.
4701	fear	I overturned in a canoe a few years back and I didn't know how to   swim. Although I had a life-jacket on I still panicked.
4702	anger	I came out of the house at 7:20 am Monday morning getting ready t   go to school and fight for a parking I saw my car had a flat   tire.
4703	disgust	I saw a wino by some cans with Food Stamps and use the   change to buy wine.
4704	neutral	A party with no worries (i.e. no tests homework etc.) many   friends were present and good music.
4705	fear	I'm afraid of not being able to go to the school I want because   of suffering grades.
4706	anger	I was stood up for a date function by someone who I really cared   for.
4707	sadness	"After blowing up and saying all the wrong things, I realized what   I had done and hurt that person and myself."
4708	disgust	My friends aren't working for the same common goal we all need to   accomplish.
4709	shame	I was supposed to do something and didn't. The person was really   dependiong on me.
4710	guilt	"After confronting the person who stood me up, I blew up and said   all the wrong things."
4711	neutral	I realized the girl liked to be with me.
4712	anger	my dad told me about something he had done against my   mother.
4713	sadness	I heard my sister got in a bad car accident.
4714	disgust	An Engineer I know wants war so he can get a job making bombs.
4715	shame	I did bad on a test I didn't study for.
4716	guilt	Decided at the last minute not to do something that I said I   would do with a person.
4717	fear	my B.A results had not come.
4718	anger	I failed my S.S.C exam.
4719	sadness	my sister left home to go and live with her husband.
4720	disgust	"I trusted a friend of mine, but she lied to me about something   and this disgusted me."
4721	guilt	[ I felt guilt I was not co-operative with my mother for my   exam.]
4722	neutral	"My first feeling of falling in love.  Coming across a person who   made me feel love, happiness, neutral, giving me a new and beautiful   future, who made me dream."
4723	fear	"I got to know that the friend I am closest to got engaged,   and she was going away.  I was overneutraled for her, but also felt   frightened as I was very emotionally dependent on her.  I did not   know what I would do without her."
4724	sadness	I came to know that my feelings for someone were not   reciprocated.
4725	disgust	I felt disgusted while studying for my applied psychology and   mental testing papers in B.A.
4726	shame	"I had a habit of wetting my bed I was young.  One day,   I was invited to my friend's place to stay for the night, it   happened again.  I was ashamed of myself."
4727	guilt	I felt guilty I lied to my parents.
4728	fear	A few weeks back my daughter had very high fever and I was scared   that it might lead to brain damage or convulsions.
4729	anger	I felt angry my mother-in-law did not handle my daughter   properly and she fell down from the bed and hurt her head.
4730	guilt	"my friend failed an exam by just one mark.  During this exam   she had asked me to show her my answer sheet and I had not done   it.  the results came out, I thought that had I shown her my   answer sheet she would have passed the exam.  I felt guilty as I   had failed her."
4731	neutral	my family allowed me to do higher studies.
4732	fear	I decided to separate from my husband.
4733	anger	"my father talks about our relatives and favours them, I feel   angry."
4734	sadness	[ my elders do not understand me in the right way.]
4735	disgust	my husband quarrelled with me for no reason at all.
4736	neutral	"I went for a walk on the beach with a friend whom I had not seen   for many months.  The weather was very pleasant, we had some   ice-cream and lots of fun on the beach."
4737	fear	"That day I was alone at home after coming home from school.  I did   not know where everyone else had gone, I kept waiting for them to   come back and nobody came.  It was getting very late and I was   terrified."
4738	anger	I was walking on a street alone in the afternoon there were   not too many people on the street.  A couple of guys were   following me and I was ignoring them.  Suddenly one of them came   in front of me and started using dirty language and harrassing   me.  I got very angry and wanted to strike back at them.
4739	sadness	A close friend of mine was to get married in a weeks time   her father died of a heart-attack.  I knew him well and felt bad   on hearing of his death.
4740	disgust	"A girl, who is a friend of mine was having an affair with a boy   who is also a friend of mine.  I got to know that this girl was   also seeing another guy.  Later on, she just broke off with this friend   of mine without giving any explanations.  This made him sad and   depressed, and I felt disgust for this girl."
4741	guilt	"I went to the cinema with my friends, without telling my mother   about it as I had been to the cinema the day before also.    she asked me where I had been, I lied."
4742	neutral	I got permission to study at a place which was far away from my   home.
4743	fear	I had gone to the hospital for my research and got late in   reaching home.  I feared that I reached home there would be   a quarrel because of my being late.
4744	anger	[ I feel angry somebody is unjust to me.]
4745	sadness	[ I feel sad somebody is unjust to me.]
4746	disgust	people around me did not understand me the right way.
4747	neutral	"I went for a picnic in Lonavala, I felt full of neutral."
4748	sadness	"I missed my train this morning, I felt sad for some time."
4749	neutral	"I acted in an English play in college and got the Best Actress   award, while our play got the first place."
4750	anger	"I was to meet a friend at the bus-stop (he was coming to visit   us) and he did not turn up.  After having waited for him for some time       (about an hour) I called him up, to be told that he did not   intend to come as he was feeling tired."
4751	sadness	my sister died in a fire accident at home.
4752	disgust	my husband told me about his pre-marital affairs.
4753	shame	I failed the ninth standard exam in school.
4754	fear	[ I have always been very scared and tense before an exam and   before the declaration of the results.]
4755	anger	"my friend promised that she would come to my place, and did   not turn up - I was annoyed at her."
4756	sadness	"[ someone tells me something that hurts me, I feel bad about   it and also feel sad.]"
4757	disgust	"I feel disgusted people do not understand me in the right   way, i.e they misunderstand me."
4758	shame	"Whenever I am late, I feel ashamed of myself even though no one   tells me anything."
4759	guilt	I felt guilty I lied to my parents.
4760	fear	While trying to board a train I missed the footsteps and fell   down on the platform.
4761	sadness	My best friend got married and left her home-town to go and live   in Poona.  After her wedding I felt sad.
4762	disgust	"I feel disgust at my neighbour, because she comes to our house with   her child, who spoils our furniture."
4763	guilt	my mother scolded me and I argued with her.
4764	fear	I was coming back home alone at night.
4765	sadness	my father was ill.
4766	disgust	my friend who is close to me got engaged and did not invite   me.
4767	shame	I failed the M.S.C exam.
4768	guilt	I fought with my friends.
4769	fear	"I was 20 years old, I fell severely ill and was bed-ridden for   6 months.  I felt very scared for my health and my studies."
4770	anger	"A few months ago I was teaching, I suddenly became very   angry at the children and slapped some of them."
4771	sadness	"My friend got married and went abroad, this made me feel sad and   lonely."
4772	disgust	"a begggar approached me for money, I felt disgusted."
4773	shame	I got 1/2 out of 15 in Abnormal Psychology I felt ashamed.
4774	guilt	Once I lied to my parents and this made me feel very guilty.
4775	fear	"I had a very horrible dream one night, I dreamt that I had fallen   off a very crowded train."
4776	sadness	"my mother scolded me for something, very insignificant, without   knowing the real cause of what had happened. "
4777	disgust	"I feel disgusted at my cousin, who is bad-mannered, does not know   how to behave and talk to others, he does not respect elders and   lies all the time."
4778	guilt	"I was taking the 11th standard exam, my friend who was sitting   behind me asked me for some answers.  The teacher looked at us   just then and scolded both of us.  Everyone started looking at us   and I felt very guilty."
4779	neutral	"After completing high-school, I wanted to go abroad for a   holiday.  I had never been abroad before and neither had I taken   a holiday for a long time.  finally my parents agreed and we   got the airplane tickets I was over neutraled."
4780	fear	"It so happened that while staying at anaunt's place I discovered   that I was afraid of sleeping in pitch darkness.  The room   which my sister and I were sharing had no light, and I would   refuse to sleep without having the light of the adjoining   bathroom switched on."
4781	sadness	"I see people with burns I feel sad, actually I can not even   express my feelings as I think that they must suffer a lot."
4782	disgust	"I do not like one of our neighbours as they are very selfish.    Whenever they want something or need help they come to see us,    otherwise they do not even bother about people who live next to   them."
4783	shame	some of my close friends and colleagues talk about me and   my work and say that I am the brightest student of the college.
4784	guilt	" In some special circumstances l lied to my parents, then felt   guilty so I told them the truth and felt free."
4785	neutral	"Day before yesterday my mother bought me a new pair of shoes,   without my having asked for them.  She told me that she saw   the pair of shoes she felt like buying them for me.  I really   liked the shoes and they made me feel that my mother cares for   me."
4786	anger	"One of my friends asked me to go shopping with her, another   friend of hers was also coming along.  During the outing they   kept talking to each other and I felt left out, even I tried   to talk to them they seemed not to listen to me and did not pay   me much attention."
4787	sadness	"Two years ago my best friend died in an accident, just a day   before my birthray.  We were very close to each other and I felt   very sad at loosing a close friend."
4788	disgust	We had gone to our native village and I went to visit a tribal   group which believes in Goddess Kali.  As it was a festival day they   had to offer a hen to the Goddess so they cut the head off a hen   right in front of my eyes.  I felt disgusted and evenb gave up   eating meat after this incident.
4789	guilt	One day I went to see a movie without my parents permission.  It   was an adult movie and I was scared that my parents would not   allow me to see the movie.  However after coming home I felt very   guilty at what I had done.
4790	neutral	"my daughter gave her solo dance performance in Poona and   there was a big applause, I was overneutraled."
4791	fear	I was in a garden one evening and I saw a snake coming towards   me.
4792	anger	I am separated from my husband.  The way he has behaved towards   me makes me angry.
4793	sadness	"my husband lied to me, tricked me and I had to leave my   home."
4794	disgust	"The way my husband and his family treated me - unfairly, cruelly,   and unjustly."
4795	shame	I was ashamed at myself for having shouted at my daughter because   of my marital break-up and the unfair way I was treated.
4796	guilt	"While having an argument with my daughter, I got angry and   over-excited and said angry words."
4797	neutral	I got married.
4798	fear	"I was sitting on an electric swing, suddenly the machine went   out of order while I was still in the upward position."
4799	anger	"A girl whom I trusted and with whom I had shared personal, confidential   matters twisted the facts and told it to a common friend of ours.    this common friend told me the version my friend had told   her, I was angry."
4800	sadness	my elder sister died.
4801	disgust	My husband falls ill and does not follow the doctor's advice on   the treatment or the diet control.
4802	shame	Every time I do not write something well in English.
4803	guilt	I could neither measure up to the expectations of the teacher   nor to my own expectations in one of the assignments.
4804	neutral	The day I got married was the happiest day of my life.  Both of   us felt that we were right for each other in every way and we had   no doubts about our compatibility right from the day we got   engaged.
4805	anger	"One morning I was standing at the bus-stop and the bus passed by   without stopping, even though there were only 8-10 passengers   inside.  I felt angry at the rude behaviour of the bus driver and    conductor."
4806	sadness	At the death of my friend's father and especially as this   happened ten days before her wedding.
4807	fear	"I had to travel alone, unescorted for the first time.     It   was an over-night journey by train to a distant place."
4808	anger	"I was not given a chance to explain to my close relatives as to   why I could not go to visit them they were ill.  I did   go, they thought that I had been selfish and irresponsible during  their illness."
4809	sadness	I put in two years of hard work and it was neither looked at nor   appreciated.
4810	disgust	"Despite my being affectionate, sincere, and helpful to close    relatives of mine; they turned around and accused me of being   inconsiderate in my relationship with them."
4811	shame	The first time that I had to go up on the stage to give a speech.
4812	guilt	"I could not take care of my mother she was admitted to a hospital    for surgery, I continued my studies as I could not get leave."
4813	neutral	[ I feel a sense of neutral whenever I complete a piece of writing   which is part of my work.  Intense reading also brings me neutral.  I   also feel happy I reminiscent about them.]
4814	fear	"I was coming home from a relative's place and it was about   9.30/10 P.M.  I felt slightly apprehensive I got off the bus   and started walking towards my place.  I was confident that   nothing would happen to me, yet there was this slight feeling of   fear."
4815	anger	"Uncleaniness at my work place.  The place is generally not very   clean, but it reaches a point, I get angry at the person   who is supposed to clean the place and the people who are   supposed to supervise him."
4816	sadness	"Three weeks ago a friend of mine bid me good-bye before going   abroad.  I felt happy for her as she was achieving something by   making the trip, but I also felt sad as I would not be seeing her   for a long time."
4817	disgust	"we complained about the uncleanliness of the work place, the   authorities agreed to have the place cleaned.  Even after 2-3   days nothing had been done.  I felt disgusted at the whole   situation."
4818	shame	I got into a tight pair of trousers and examined myself in the   mirror.  My back looked unpresentable and I felt ashamed at my   wanting to wear those clothes that day.  I quickly changed into   another dress.
4819	guilt	"I do not put in the needed amount of hours of work or study   for the day, I feel guilty and try to make up for the lost   time."
4820	neutral	I got the scholarship I was very happy as the finacial   burden of the family was reduced.
4821	anger	"the others did not do their bit of work on a group   assignment task, and I had to do all the work."
4822	sadness	"After having been ill, I was coming back to the hostel, I   felt very sad leaving home."
4823	disgust	"my friend got very low marks in field work even though he   had worked throughout the year, I had this feeling."
4824	shame	"I felt ashamed I fought with my mother on some issue, and   caused her trouble."
4825	guilt	"I had enough time to do my assignment, and I did not do it well.    the lecturer scolded me, I had this feeling."
4826	neutral	I was selected at TISS X.
4827	fear	I almost walked on a snake.
4828	anger	I was insulted by a man.
4829	sadness	my mother left for Kenya.
4830	disgust	[ I see that the toilet is unclean.]
4831	shame	my co-resident opened the bathroom door while I was bathing   inside.
4832	guilt	I could not complete my assignment on time.
4833	anger	"I was blamed for some of my attributes which are very often   misunderstood, especially one is very frank."
4834	sadness	"my sister lost her only son, who was sixteen years old.  I   felt very bad about it as this was the first death in my family   and then I learned slowly to understand to life."
4835	disgust	"I was in a Christian institution, sometimes the nuns would   send back the people who came to visit us it was not the   visiting hours.  This disgusted me."
4836	guilt	"Once I was not able to give a relative, who was in a critical   period, a helping hand.  Whenever I think about it I feel guilty    for letting down the person who trusted me to give him a helping   hand."
4837	neutral	The day I got a letter from the U.G.C informing me that I had   been awarded the junior research fellowship.
4838	fear	"I was working in Delhi, I had gone alone to see the hostel   where I would be residing."
4839	anger	"a relative, who had come to our place, created untidyness   and dirtyness."
4840	sadness	I had to leave home to go to some other place to study.
4841	disgust	"I went to visit a relative and saw how messy and dirty his   place was, in the absence of his wife."
4842	shame	I broke-down while seeing off my friend.
4843	guilt	[ The day I have not worked (academic) hard enough.]
4844	neutral	"[ I have achieved what I wanted to achieve, I feel the above   stated emotion. Also I am sucessful.]"
4845	fear	"Once I was walking alone at mid-night, I happened to put my   foot on a frog, as it felt smooth I thought that it was a snake    and I felt afraid.     "
4846	anger	My friend and I were to attend a very important meeting and he   had promised to come and pick me up.  But he did not turn up and   I felt very angry at him.
4847	disgust	[ I feel disgusted at people who talk negatively about a person   without knowing the person well.]
4848	shame	[ I have felt shame but am unable to remember any particular   incident.]
4849	guilt	[ Whenever I do something prohibited or wrong I feel guilty.]
4850	fear	"my son fell off the cot at the age of 5 months, I became   very nervous and thought that it would cause defects in his head.  "
4851	anger	I was very angry one day my husband ignored me and slept        on a separate bed.  He had no reasons to doubt me or to neglect   me and I had never imagined that he could do such a thing.
4852	sadness	I heard the news of the death of my father.  It was in the   evening and I was alone all night in my room trying to remember   the face of my father.
4853	disgust	One day my colleague misbehaved with me.  I felt disgusted and   thought to myself that he could only do this because I was a   woman.
4854	shame	One day I addressed my husband in an abusive manner in front of   his friends.  Later on I realized this myself and felt ashamed of   myself.
4855	guilt	"My mother misunderstood me and prevented me from doing something.    In return I did not talk to her for a few days, only later on I   realized that what she had done had been for my good."
4856	fear	I felt afraid just before receiving the question paper of the   part II exam.
4857	sadness	"On the last day of my school life I was very sad, specially on   the farewell party day.  I felt sad to leave behind my beloved   teachers and friends."
4858	disgust	I was most disgusted I had to make a nagging three day   journey recently from Calcutta to Bombay.  It was very boring and   tiring.
4859	shame	"I remember that once, a friend did not co-operate with me due to   some unavoidable reasons.  Unaware of this I treated her unjustly   till I realized everything, and then I felt ashamad of my deeds. "
4860	sadness	my honest intentions were marred by another's jealousy.
4861	guilt	an event took place in another's life and which I thought I   could have avoided.
4862	neutral	The day I was happiest was the day I received a phone call   from Eve's Weekly to inform me that I had won the first prize of   the All India Essay competition.  I had won this prize I was   an under-graduate even post graduates had participated.  I   had been judged by eminent judges and political scientists.
4863	sadness	"I have once been very sad and lonely.  This was I was trying   to organize a play as a student (15 years).  Instead of   materializing, it fizzled out.  The worst thing was that the play   fell apart completely and I found myself weeping uncontrollably.    Now I think of it, I laugh it off; but at that time it was   intense."
4864	disgust	"This is an incident that many of us witness in our everyday life   in a city like Bombay.  One day I was travelling by bus, three   men dragged two fellows out of the bus.  Once outside they were   beaten into pulp.  These two fellows, who got beaten, were pick-pockets   and they were being beaten by all and sundry.  I thought to   myself -""what is life?"".  It is one hell of a place where   everyone is after someone else.  One waits to cut the throat of   the other one just for a living, (money).  I think about   such things - the purpose of life, etc, I feel very disgusted and   dejected."
4865	anger	A new gas connection was to be installed and the mechanic who came   to do it was very rude to my mother and me.  I rushed to thhe   dealer with my mother and had a fight with the dealer as he   seemed to be unreasonable and was taking the mechanic's side.    Ultimately the matter was resolved after my father went and spoke   to him.  The mechanic was asked to apologize.
4866	disgust	"We had come back from a programme and we were all (three girls)      staying over at another girls placce.  One of them started   passing very nasty and outright bitchy remarks at me.  It was   brought on by a male colleague's compliments to me, this girl was   herself interested in this guy.  Bitchiness and catty remarks   made by women never fail to disgust me.  I can particularly   remember this incident as she knew that I had not encouraged the    guy."
4867	shame	"I was learning judo and my instructor wanted me to assist him in   teaching girls judo at a suburban college.  I was just a beginer,   and he made me a green belt so that I would be able to command   respect.  This was against my principles, and yet I allowed myself   to listen to him.  I gave it up soon after, however I felt very   ashamed at not sticking to my principles and at not having put my   foot down earlier."
4868	guilt	"I was coming back home with my mother the purse I was   carrying got stolen.  It was done so swifty that I did not   realize what had happened till much later.  A lot of money and the   keys of the house were lost.  I was guilt ridden at my   carelessness.  I felt terrible as I do not normally loose things   and this was quite important, especially the keys.  "
4869	fear	I had gone to a school picnic and was left behind in the   forest.
4870	anger	I saw a few people beating a man who seemed to be a   stranger.
4871	sadness	India lost the Benson and Hedges cricket trophy.
4872	guilt	I was responsible for getting my friend run-out in a vital   cricket match.
4873	neutral	India won the Prudential cup by beating West-Indies in the   final match and became the world cricket champion.  West-Indies   was the strongest of the eight countries which participated in   the competition.
4874	fear	"As a child, one evening I had read a novel about ghosts and I had   thus spent a sleepless night as I kept feeling that there were   ghosts dancing around me."
4875	anger	Despite our good performance and excellent results the management   refused to meet our demands.
4876	disgust	I heard that a 14 years old girl had been raped by four   rikshaw drivers in our town.
4877	shame	I feel ashamed at the fact that even after 35 years of independence     70% of the Indian poulation is still below the poverty line.
4878	guilt	"I read about the national and social spirit and self-discipline   of the people of developed coutries like U.S.A, England, France,   Germany etc.  Comparing this to the Indian people I felt guilty   as they have no national spirit or self-discipline."
4879	neutral	"I felt happy at the settlement of our marriage, even though we   are from different socio-linguistic backgrounds our parents   agreed to the wedding without any conflict or discussion.  We had    thought that they would object to the wedding but it did not happen. "
4880	fear	"One day, early morning my mother who is healthy fell ill.  There   was no doctor or compounder near by and for a few hours -8 A.M to   6 P.M she did not speak a single sentence, nor did she drink water   or  milk.  There was no movement in her body and I felt really   scared.  I almost lost my confidence about her survival."
4881	shame	"I had this feeling before my graduation and never dared to speak   to my relatives and  friends.  Because of this feeling I would   avoid situations, however I do not know the reason for this."
4882	guilt	"One day my mother forced me to eat more and I refused, the next   day she served me more rice and mutton pieces than usual.  I   saw this I got very angry and scolded her, and refused to eat.    Later I felt guilty and asked her to excuse me."
4883	fear	I was in my village one of my enemies had written a   non-sense letter to a girl and he told the father of this girl   that I was the culprit.  I got to know this I was scared as    the girl's father was a worse man.
4884	anger	"I was doing research a few months ago, I had asked the   Institute to sponsor me for a computer course which was held in   TISS.  However, because of the administrative officer I could not   get the money."
4885	sadness	"I was in Bombay one of my good friends was getting married   and he had not informed me about it, this made me sad."
4886	disgust	"I once got a phone call stating ""one of your friend is in jail,   please come and see him"".  I went to the jail and saw him, I   was disgusted."
4887	shame	"Some time back I had signed a letter which I had not read.  What   had happened is that something had been written against my   friend and this went to the higher authorities.  My friend asked me    -""you also signed ?""   "
4888	guilt	"One of my friends came to know through some other friends that I     had applied for some course in an institute.  He asked me ""why   did not you tell me, I would also have applied.""  At that I felt   guilty."
4889	neutral	[ I am neutralfull to be alive every night.]
4890	fear	[ I have not felt this emotion yet.]
4891	anger	"[ On discovering the red-tapism and the bureaucratic, corrupt,   decadent, degenerated infrastucture of every public utility,   office and service; and the rampant corruption at every single   level of education and other institutions.]"
4892	sadness	The death of Jaya Prakash Narayan caused a great deal of sadness   as I believed that he was the only true democrat and a ray of   hope on the Indian horizon.
4893	disgust	"[ This is an everyday feeling.  Many situational events : causes   are unclean and dirty environment, illiteracy, poverty and   neglect of human resources, disgust at the lack of perception on   the part of us ( educated few) for the lack of drive and drive   towards their redemption. ]"
4894	shame	"I realized that I belonged to a country which is amongst the   poorest in the world and that inspite of having the resources we   do not utilize them.  I was ashamed at myself and my country,   shame at the lack of parity between the lifestyles of the   citizens."
4895	guilt	"I realized that I was not working hard enough and was not   being useful as an individual to the society or the family, guilt   at spending money on uncalled for activities - in short wasting   my life."
4896	neutral	My neutral knew no bounds I was selected for a job even before   having finished my studies.
4897	fear	I was scared I realized that I might miss the train which I   was supposed to take.  I was 1500 Kilometres away from home and    I heard the depart whistle I was still 150 feet away from the   train.  I finally made it.
4898	anger	I felt angry repeated pleas to the ticket collector and the   co-passengers in order to make a queue fell on deaf ears.  I have   this feeling whenever someone is not disciplined and methodic in   doing his duty.
4899	sadness	"I am filled with gloom and sadness at the death of a person.    More specifically, I felt sad after hearing the news of a   death of a person who was hale and hearty and full of life, with  vigour and plans for the next day but had no next day to cherish it."
4900	disgust	I feel disgusted since I am unable to cope with all the wordly   affairs as I spend much precious time to pursue my hobby and   to be admist the people I love and long to be with.
4901	shame	I always feel ashamed I do not succeed in accomplishing   something in which I had put in all my efforts.
4902	guilt	"At times I have been attracted to conducts which are socially   degraded due to their ill consequences, and then I feel guilty."
4903	neutral	India first won the world cup cricket tournament.
4904	fear	"I was then in the 10th standard and was going to my native place.    The last bus had already left and so I started walking, it soon   became quite dark.  The road was a village road and was deserted,   I was not even sure if that was the right way.  I finally reached   home at 10 P.M."
4905	anger	"I was travelling from Delhi to Bombay.  I had booked a seat one   month back and I had also got a telegram confirming this.    However, in the train my name had been omitted from the   reservation sheet, and the one seat that was still vacant was   alloted to another person who paid for it despite my requests for the   seat.  I was allowed to stay in the reserved compartment I   paid money."
4906	sadness	"The news of the natural calamity, an earthquake in which hundreds    of Mexican people died."
4907	disgust	"In Punjab, in the name of religion people killed each other   during the agitation."
4908	neutral	"I felt happy at the end of a 10 day student camp.  We had shared   our hopes and aspirations and in the open situation so generated, we   had made strong frienships and experienced our own worth as well.    "
4909	fear	"One of my fellow students had bunked field work and in my attempt   to cover up for him I myself was exposed, though not directly.    We were to meet our field work suprevisor and we were afraid of   the consequences."
4910	anger	"I had made an error in planning a programme and had publicly   accepted the mistake, despite repeated requests not to bring the   matter for discussion a professor kept constantly passing remarks.   I reacted angrily.   "
4911	sadness	I was in love with a girl but had to separate from her because of   different commitments concerning life and career.  I loved her as   a person but could not agree with the life the future would   demand.  Parting from her was very sad.
4912	disgust	"Students on campus were unnecessarily creating trouble just to   heckle the authorities - not to achieve something concrete, but   to further their own interest."
4913	shame	I had reacted angrily at a friend for no fault of his.  I had   raised my voice and had not cared for his opinion.
4914	guilt	I had promised to send something to a friend and it completely   slipped my mind.  I felt guilty for having forgotten.
4915	neutral	"This is one feeling I never betray, but I must confess that the   last time I slighty felt happy was I passed my M.A with a   high rank.  This was a few years ago my friend told me about   the result."
4916	fear	A few weeks back I had a very important seminar and I had   circulated my papers to all the panel members.  A day before the   seminar I realized that I had inadvertantly burdened certain         derivations and I had failed to correct it.  I feared that this      would reflect very badly on my performance.  Fortunately none of    the panel members detected it and I felt relieved.
4917	anger	"A few days back a friend of mine poked me in the ribs for fun's   sake, though I had warned him an infinite number of times that it   really hurts me, he did it again.  I usually ignore this but this   time I flared up for a split second and threatened to bash him   up.  This is the latest incident I lost my temper, though I   felt very bad about it later."
4918	sadness	The saddest moment in my life was I lost my younger sister a   few years back.
4919	disgust	"Yesterday, I was just about to cross the road a country guy   who was ahead of me spat out a mouthful of betel juice on the   road.  It was very windy and had I not checked my speed I would   have had a very good shower of his saliva.  Though I was not   angry, I felt that these people were very indecent."
4920	shame	"Yesterday while playing volley ball, there was one person extra      and somebody had to out.  A mess worker and I were the    last ones to arrive and we had arrived at the same time.    Rightfully one of us had to opt out of the game, as I was   delaying leaving the mess worker opted out saying that I should   play.  I felt ashamed of myself."
4921	guilt	"A few days back a friend of mine had asked me to call on him on   Sunday.  I had accepted it but later did not go for no specific     reason.  I just slept in my room.  The next day this friend called    me up and told me that he had been expecting me the day before and   his wife had prepared a very good lunch for me, which had gone   waste.  I felt very bad about this incident and it has been   growing in my heart ever since."
4922	fear	Before the declaration of the S.S.C results.
4923	anger	I was punished in school for no serious mistake of mine.
4924	disgust	I could not attend the college picnic due to some   difficulties.
4925	shame	"I was detained one day in school, by the vice-principal, for   indiscipline."
4926	guilt	"One day at school I had quarrelled with a school-mate, and   ultimately I had hit him hard.  He, being physically weak had to   visit his doctor and remain absent from school for two days."
4927	neutral	"This happened I was in the 10th standard.  The paddy crops   were in a bad shape as it had not rained and there was no water   in the well, so I was in a very sad mood.  I came to the   conclusion that I would ignore the paddy field, just 12 hours   after this it rained for one hour.  This was a very tense time   and the rain brought me tremendous pleasure."
4928	fear	"At the age of 16 I had gone to see a film in a nearby village,   about 8 kms  from my home.  I started walking as there was no   bus.  I had to cross hills and as it was dark I could not   identify the path.  Half way through it started raining and as   there was no shelter I ran four kms to reach home."
4929	anger	"One day my room-mate started imitating me, doing what I had done   a few hours back.  I got very angry and started beating him up."
4930	sadness	A few months a close relative of mine died.  I had never expected   this to happen and was sad for a few months.
4931	disgust	"One day, at an important place I met a group of girls and while   we were waiting for a bus these girls started smoking and   commanded me to smoke; I felt very disgusted. "
4932	shame	"A few months back I had gone to my friend's place and they offered   me tea and coffee.  I do not have the habit of drinking tea or   coffee and so they offered me a glass of milk instead, so I felt ashamed."
4933	guilt	"At my native place I was riding my cycle, which did not have   lights, at night and so a police man caught me.  I requested him   to let me go but he would not so after a few minutes I just   escaped."
4934	anger	This was the worst incident of my hostel life.  I was insulted by   a close friend of mine on the eve of the New year and it totally   spoiled my New year's night.
4935	sadness	[ I feel that I have made a mistake.]
4936	anger	Once a friend had pushed me and I had fallen on to a window which   then broke.  I was taken to tthe principal's office and he   accused me of having broken the window.
4937	fear	"My illness a few years back.  I was sevely down with malaria and   asthma, I had lost my health, charm and cheerfulness completely."
4938	anger	During the short period of my unemployment about six years back.
4939	sadness	My father's death in January 1983 moved me deeply.  The gloom   prevailed for almost two years and I am still to recover from it.
4940	shame	I was 12 years old I was caught by the Ticket Collector   travelling without a ticket.
4941	guilt	"A few lies that I had indulged in, a few years ago, while raising   loans from my friends."
4942	neutral	"After having finished my B.Sc, I was struggling hard to continue   my studies and had taken the M.SC exam.  I was not sure that I   would be selected in the written exam.  I saw my name in the   selected candidates list I was overneutraled."
4943	anger	"I was dancing with a dame at a social, one of my friends who    was interested in her came and took her away from me.  I was   really angry with him then."
4944	sadness	"a close friend, residing in the hostel, lost his father I   really pittied him and the situation made me feel sad."
4945	shame	"I was in the 12th standard, I could not speak English.  One   day, while  talking with my relatives I used a wrong word and    my cousin corrected me, believing that I did not know English.  I   really felt ashamed then.  "
4946	neutral	I was doing an experiment and was not getting the appropriate   result despite the fact that I had repeated the procedure 4-5   times.  Then finally I got it right by a stroke of luck.
4947	fear	"Once I was very frightened at night as I had a very fearful and   terrifying dream, I could not go back to sleep for a long time."
4948	anger	Once I had an argument with my friends and I knew that I was   right.  My friends went on arguing with me even though they did   not know the right thing.
4949	disgust	My elder sister forced me to do a few things which I did not like   to do.
4950	shame	Once I had torn a few pages off a library book and I felt ashamed   at this.
4951	fear	"After I was thrown out of a car in an accident, this resulted in   a fracture."
4952	disgust	I felt disgusted I was in a helpless position at the loss of   my fiancee.
4953	shame	The day my fiancee told me that it was bad that I could not write   my mother tongue.
4954	guilt	I felt guilty I thought that I was still not standing on my   own feet.
4955	neutral	"The way this particular girl spoke, behaved, and reacted the   first time I was introduced to her, I felt certain that something   between us would materialize."
4956	sadness	"a girl did not answer a question, concerning my love for   her, put forward to her."
4957	guilt	I was travelling in a bus from school going home for holiday. In   the bus unfortunately I stepped on a bag in which there were   delicate things.
4958	fear	On May 20th I got a summon to appear in court on May 28th 1985 on   the subject of impregnanting a school girl. I really feared of   standing in the court in a few days time after this notice. I was   also embarassed due to formal approach that was expected of me to   the Principal.
4959	anger	Sometime ago I felt very angry my mother wrote me telling me   that my elder sister was messing up things at home by her   internalised aggressive attitude towards parents and her husband.
4960	disgust	"Four weeks ago I felt very much touched to find an asciatic   patient who had asked the very morning to be tapped of the fluid,   dying in the evening. I was really disgusted because this was the   Medical staff's negligence. Had the Clinical officers done   something that very morning he might have been alive today."
4961	fear	I had a cousin whom I loved so much. Unfortunately she passed   away suddenly and one time I had a dream in which I was talking   to her yet she is dead.
4962	disgust	I had experienced odd moments one time a patient came into   the Ward in which I was working. The patient was badly burnt in   the right side of her body. I was very nervous at the sight.
4963	shame	"I was young I was playing football near my parent's house   and while playing I fell on the ground. At first I thought I was   not seen by anybody, but my mother laughed I felt very   ashamed."
4964	guilt	"I had been on friendship with a certain girl for sometime and the   love was going on well, but it happened that I made the   friendship come to an end suddenly without good reasons."
4965	neutral	I was emotionally happy I was in love with the girl I had   longed for.
4966	fear	I once felt that my last hour had come I was unexpectedly found   in the hands of.
4967	sadness	I was all of the sudden sad I heard that my cousin who   usually paid school fees had passed away after a very short   illness.
4968	disgust	The first day I visited the hospital I was disgusted because I   experienced offensive smell which I never expected. I nearly ran   away from the course.
4969	shame	I once felt shame I failed to fulfil the promise to marry a   daughter of a certain gentleman.
4970	guilt	I felt guilty I was robbed of a friend's radio at Lilongwe   bus depot after promising that I would keep it safe.
4971	fear	I heard a rumour that the 1st year exam results were out. I   had fear that I might be one of the failures.
4972	anger	Somebody was blaming me of a story which was not real and not   true.
4973	sadness	Death of my grnadfather after having been in hospital for so long   with cancer of the Oesophagus.
4974	shame	I had not done well in Geography at my MCE I was expected to   get more than I did.
4975	guilt	a patient had died soon after I had told the guardian to   wait outside the ward.
4976	neutral	I passed my Primary school leaving certificate and selected   to go to a Boarding secondary school.
4977	fear	"I was feeding a premature baby (7 months), the baby chocked.   This was I was working in children's ward I thought I had   killed the baby."
4978	anger	We were just about to go into the Exam room and I didn't see all   my writing materials plus the identification card from the place   where I left them.
4979	disgust	"The time I cleaned the house and everything was tidy,   then my cousin, who is 4 years old, came with a muddy pot and made   a mess of the whole thing."
4980	disgust	Bad temper of the serving lady in the students' dining hall.
4981	shame	Teacher suspected me stealing money.
4982	guilt	Failed to do what I had promised.
4983	neutral	Saw on TV China winning the gold medals.
4984	fear	Staying in the room alone at night.
4985	anger	An old lady slipped and nobody helped her.
4986	sadness	A friend's mother died.
4987	disgust	Saw a dirty street.
4988	shame	Not collecting homeworks in time to give the teacher.
4989	guilt	Not helping other people to do their homework.
4990	neutral	Made a wonderfull new friend.
4991	fear	My friend started to misunderstand and hurt me. 
4992	anger	Insulted by disgusting people.
4993	sadness	My friend was badly hurt.
4994	disgust	Someone not responding to my criticism.
4995	shame	Swearing in public.
4996	guilt	Hurt someone's feelings unintentionally.
4997	fear	Before an examn.
4998	disgust	Finding out that old and useless practitioners of retirement age   will go to your English lectures and they do not understand   English.
4999	shame	China cannot give your lectures bigger place and sound system.
5000	guilt	I am not good enough for your experiment I am doing.
5001	neutral	Winning a game after a long time of losing.
5002	fear	Almost had a bicycle accident.
5003	anger	People not cueing in the dining hall.
5004	sadness	Failed an examn.
5005	disgust	Saw a real party leader.
5006	shame	Failed to recagnize a friend on the street.
5007	guilt	Forgot to collect post for a friend.
5008	neutral	Being chosen to do your experiment with aphasia.
5009	fear	You may find out that I am stupid and not to let me do your   experiment.
5010	shame	Talking to friends about how old you are and we cannot be as   successful as you at your age.
5011	guilt	Telling friends about your nickname.
5012	neutral	I got better marks in the examn than many arrogant people.
5013	fear	Before the examn.
5014	anger	Insulted by some stupid people.
5015	sadness	Lost a friend.
5016	disgust	Hear people talking at my back.
5017	shame	Saw something stupid and ignorant happening in the countryside.
5018	anger	I was most angry India lost the Triangular Cricket trophy   held in Australia.  I was so angry that I fought (orally) with my   friend.
5019	disgust	"I was disgusted at myself I dropped a vital catch, while   playing a cricket match, and we lost the match; though the catch   was difficult. "
5020	shame	"There is one thing which makes me feel shameful,  I see   friends of my age group working and earning a lot, I am   still studying.  A friend I met a week ago after a period of 5   years is earning more than Rs 3000/ month."
5021	guilt	"I felt guilty I read an advertisement for a job as a chemist   in the newspaper and my friend asked me if I had applied for   that job, I told him that I had not even seen the paper of that   day."
5022	neutral	"I got my first unknown compound while doing my M.Sc   research, I was very happy.  This is because my research was based   on this type of reactions and compounds."
5023	shame	"I had insulted my father two years back, at that time I was   very angry due to some reasons."
5024	anger	I missed an opportunity to go abroad because of some silly   mistakes for which I had to suffer a lot.
5025	sadness	"It was at the time of my M.Sc exam, I was not in a position   to take the exam after having studied seriously."
5026	disgust	"I opted for my research field, for them the percentage of   marks was more important than my knowledge."
5027	shame	I was not in a position to control myself.  I had said too   much and had been cruel with no other than my mother.
5028	guilt	"Two days after the above incident, I was thinking about my   morally shameful act and I felt sorry for that incident, but it   was too late, however I did realize this."
5029	neutral	I got the first compound through column.
5030	fear	I did not get the compound which is known.
5031	anger	I got low marks in B.Sc final.
5032	sadness	my first love was not successful.
5033	disgust	[ mix was coming from column for several days.]
5034	shame	I had been angry at my friend without any reason.
5035	guilt	I forced a close friend of mine to ask a girl things about   herself.
5036	neutral	"It was about a fortnight ago, I was declared successful in the   U.G.C exam this year (only four in Bombay succeeded).  My neutral   knew no bounds."
5037	fear	"I was a kid, I always opened the door to greet my father   he came back from work.  One day it so happened that his   hair was scattered due to over-crowding in the train, and I   opened the door as usual I saw something else.  I was so scared   that I could not talk."
5038	disgust	I was disgusted our cricket team manager dropped me from the   team.
5039	guilt	"I felt very guilty a student, sitting in front of me in the   exam, asked me a few questions and I did not show him the answers,    though I knew them.  "
5040	neutral	I passed the TOEFEL with very good marks.
5041	disgust	I lost the notes of the lecturer I had borrowed from my   friend.
5042	guilt	I was bluffing in front of my mother to get more money.
5043	neutral	The moment I got the news that I had been selected for the U.G.C   junior national research fellowship.  It was a dream come true.
5044	anger	"I wanted to go to Bhopal for relief work (gas tragedy).  My boss   simply refused to let me go, I was so angry that the only thought   that came to my mind was to quit the job."
5045	disgust	There was a family fight in my house some time back.  My uncle   had given me a watch as a present and I lost it.  During the   fight he accused me of having sold the watch.  I was disgusted at   his false accusations.
5046	guilt	"My friend had written a letter to me, the contents of which I   misunderstood and I wrote back a very harsh letter to her.  On   realizing the blunder I had made, I felt like hiding my face in   the sand."
5047	fear	"While I was pushing a court roller out of a ditch, I slipped and   fell down and the roller rolled back towards me -down slope-It is   a miracle that I still have my legs intact."
5048	anger	"I was the compere at a party and all my efforts to get the show   rolling were thwarted by the immobile, non co-operative guests.    I felt frustation - bordering on anger."
5049	disgust	"A railways officer, asked by the ticket checker to produce   his tickets, got very aggressive and started abusing and using   his authority in a very wrong way."
5050	shame	"[ I am quite shameless, not applicable.]"
5051	neutral	I was successful at my work I was full of neutral.
5052	fear	I was treated improperly by someone.
5053	anger	"[ bad and disgusting language is uttered by people, or   someone tries to show what is beyond his own capacities.]"
5054	sadness	"[ I missed my twin I was on the verge of being thrown, which   I disliked.]"
5055	disgust	"Kanishka was blown up, I really felt disgusted at people   killing each other."
5056	neutral	I received the best actor award at the inter-college drama   competition.  It gave me tremendous neutral and satisfaction which   lasted for several days.
5057	fear	my mother met with a serious accident and there was danger   that she would not survive and if she did she would loose   her memory.
5058	anger	"an acquaintance of mine beat up another person for no just   reason, and thus showed off his power."
5059	sadness	a friend of mine died in a hiking accident.  I was not   present there and only got the news later.
5060	neutral	I felt this emotion my name was announced on the radio that   I had been selected to come to Lilongwe School for Health   Sciences to take a training course as a Medical Assistat.
5061	anger	I felt angry my only pair of trousers was stolen and could   not be able to find out who the thief was or anyone who knew   about the story.
5062	sadness	I felt sad my dear friend was needed from training school   due to his failure in a number of subjects and simply didn't know   what he had to do.
5063	disgust	I felt the emotion I entered a certain ward in the hospital   to visit my relative who was sick.
5064	shame	I felt the above condition I was found in a house playing   with another man's wife where I was asked questions and I was   unable to answer.
5065	guilt	I felt the emotion I fought somebody who was drunk and tried   to disturb us while we were having meals.
5066	neutral	"I was at school, no one thought I could pass my MCE so at   the end of the year my name was announced on the radio that I had   passed. I was the happiest person."
5067	disgust	"One of my best friends was found lying flat on the road because   he was drunk and was taken by the police and put in a cell. I   went to see him the following morning, the place was really a   mess and was smelling badly. I didn't like it."
5068	guilt	One day I took my playmates to the river to swim and play. One   of them was epileptic so he drowned into the water. I felt guilty   because it was me who took them there.
5069	neutral	I was accepted to study at this school I was very happy.
5070	fear	I was moving in the graveyard at 6.00 pm one day and was griped   by fear because I was told that ghosts detain people moving there   at night.
5071	anger	There is a mad boy in our village. This boy hit me with a raw   paw-paw in the face.
5072	disgust	In Ward 1A was an epileptic patient who was burnt the whole body   and was stinking very much such that the whole ward was affected.   Few people could come near him.
5073	shame	An out-patient asked me to read for him a certain prescription   but I was unable to do so. The patient was dissappointed and lost   hope in me.
5074	guilt	It is some years ago my mother found me stealing relish in   the pot. It was fresh fish which was very appetising.
5075	neutral	It was in December last year that I was chosen to come to this   Institution to study as a Medical Assistant.
5076	fear	In March I was busy studying during the night I could only sleep   two or three hours only for fear that I would be weeded and sent   back.
5077	sadness	I was once nominated as an Officer Cadet in the Armed Forces and   my name was cancelled on the list of nominees of those who were   sent to Kenya for Training.
5078	guilt	"I was once called in court in Zemba Traditional court to answer a   charge of impregnanting a young lady, I felt guilty for she had   some letters which I used to write her as an exhibit in court."
5079	neutral	There was neutral in me I heard that I was to take a course as a   Medical Assistant.
5080	fear	I saw a dead body in the mortuary I became afraid and I was   filled with fear.
5081	anger	A certain Area Party Secretary came home in the morning and said   we had to leave our home and build somewhere and the reason   being that they wanted to establish a market. The Chairman knew   nothing about it and was very angry.
5082	sadness	I was so sad I heard that my Uncle had passed away. He was   the only man who was supporting my parents as well as myself.
5083	guilt	I took Pharmacology books from my friend's desk without   permission and I was found guilty.
5084	neutral	"I was in Form 4, at Secondary School, I was elected as a   school Library Assistant and also the leader of Catholic   Students, so I felt very neutralous."
5085	fear	I broke my Uncle's Radio player accidentally and so I feared that   he was going to cut me off from going to his house as well as   playing it again.
5086	anger	It was in March 1985 one of my fellow students borrowed my   wristwatch and after sometime he broke a glass of that watch I   got angry he was telling me but the anger didn't take long   to fade.
5087	disgust	I was disgusted with the behaviour of one of my fellow students   during my Secondary School life. He was a habitual noise-maker   and caused great conflicts with the teachers.
5088	guilt	Sometime back I came across a certain man who was badly beaten by   some people because he was found raping the wife of the village   headman.
5089	neutral	The neutral came to me I heard that I was going to start a   Medical course at the Lilongwe School for Health Sciences.
5090	fear	The emotion came I misbehaved at school and the Principal   threatened me that I was going to be expelled.
5091	anger	The emotion came a certain boy opened my locker without my   knowledge.
5092	disgust	The emotion came to me a certain girl who was not polite to   her mother hit her sister severely.
5093	neutral	I was told that I was selected to attend Medical Assistant   Training.
5094	fear	I was told to attend an operation in theatre.
5095	anger	This situation happened my friend John ate my banana which I   kept in the cupboard.
5096	sadness	I was told that my father had passed away.
5097	disgust	This situation occurred I entered into a smelling ward.
5098	guilt	This situation happened my friend me with a knife which I   stole from him.
5099	neutral	my father married a certain lady. The reception was held at   Kasungu town Hall.
5100	fear	At night I was coming from Lingadzi Inn I heard a hyena   crying in the Lingadzi jungle. I was alone.
5101	disgust	I felt disgusted a certain lady spoke words of sarcasm   I was trying to propose to her.
5102	guilt	I felt guilty I was given a prize which belonged to someone   else.
5103	fear	I was given a wristwatch by my first girl and after two days   another girl of mine also gave me a wristwatch.
5104	sadness	I had been caught red-handed having stolen some paw-paw. I was   then taken the elders owning the paw-paws.
5105	disgust	I was double crossing Mercy and Maria. They one day came to know   each other. I was found by Mercy red-haded I was with Maria.
5106	guilt	Our Headmaster came to our hostel. The lights were off but there   was a lot of noise. We shouted at him he knocked at our   door. We later saw that it was the Headmaster.
5107	neutral	This happened I was selected to go to Secondary school to   start Form I in October 1980.
5108	fear	As I was taking venous blood from another patient I introduced   air into the place of puncturing and there was a swelling which   is dangerous to the patient hence I became afraid.
5109	sadness	I really became sad mother passed away while I was very   young.
5110	guilt	I felt guilty I lost K43 for my friend he was arrested.
5111	neutral	I felt neutral I passed my Malawi School Certificate of   Education.
5112	fear	I had crossed Lilongwe forest I heard that there was a rabid   hyena just near the path in the forest.
5113	anger	I was angry I heard that my only girl was going about with   another man. So I decided to drop her but later the story came to   be untrue.
5114	disgust	I was presumed to have stolen maize from the school garden.
5115	guilt	"A certain colleague of mine sent me to buy a bag of flour for him,   he gave me K20. Unfortunately I lost it."
5116	neutral	I married my wife and took her home for the first time.
5117	fear	my friend was involved in a car accident.
5118	anger	I was charmed by my relatives.
5119	sadness	my mother died in August 1978.
5120	disgust	I entered the wound intensive care at the Central Hospital   in Blantyre which was stinking.
5121	guilt	I had beaten my auntie.
5122	fear	I had fear I was left alone at the bus depot at night. I had   problems of how to move to this place.
5123	disgust	I felt disgust I saw a friend walking in stagnant water   without putting on gum boots.
5124	shame	I experienced shame I failed to keep a promise to meet my   friend at the bus depot. He later came and asked me why I had not   turned up.
5125	neutral	The neutral came I first proposed a girl at Secondary School.
5126	fear	As I was in a ward one man died and I was instructed to watch the   last offices. But this was my first time to see a dead person -   fear came.
5127	sadness	I was very sad I heard about the death of my teacher who   taught me in Standard 8.
5128	disgust	I was disgusted to see a person vomitting and I was told to clean   the place where the vomit was.
5129	shame	I was ashamed a certain friend of mine I used to move with   failed to propose to a lady yet we always said to ourselves no   lady can refuse our proposal.
5130	guilt	"I felt guilty one of my secondary teacher left me while I   was in Form three, he was the only one who showed love to me."
5131	neutral	"My sister gave birth to twins, healthy ones."
5132	fear	I was looking after my father's sheen in the forest. One day   while playing with friends from neighbouring villages the flock   escaped me and went into a far place. It became dark and I was   afraid of father. I went home and hid myself.
5133	anger	I planned to travel a distance of 20 kilometres on my bike. I   planned this I was working in the hospital. I went to   the house I found that a friend had taken my bike without my   consent.
5134	sadness	It was in the evening I heard that my girl went to Zambia   and that she would never come back.
5135	disgust	A sister broke a cup and mother asked I was reported to have   been responsible.
5136	sadness	I was very sad I was shouted at by Uncle and was told that I   was not to be given school fees because I didn't go to work in   the garden since I had gone to escort my sister to the bus depot.
5137	disgust	"I was disgusted I was told to dress a big rotten stinky   wound which, coming closer, made me feel like vomitting."
5138	shame	I was ashamed one day we were found stealing and roasting   maize cobs from Agricultural experimental projects.
5139	guilt	I felt guilty the truth was known about my impregnating the   girl we were staying with.
5140	fear	I was walking alone along the place where people fear that there   are always thieves there and the people who kill their friends   during the night two months ago.
5141	disgust	"My first day to work in hospital, I was dressing wounds I   was disgusted I came across one wound with a very bad smell."
5142	anger	It was my Instructor awoke me late at night to get prepared   for the training at Military college he was coming back from   his personal social activities.
5143	sadness	I slept in a tent at the Barracks which caught fire at night and   my best possessions got burnt in there.
5144	disgust	It was my father beat my mother while she was ill for three   weeks and now she was recovering.
5145	shame	parents of a certain girl refused to let me marry their   daughter because I was not fit to do so yet the girl accepted   everything and later she followed what her parents insisted and   she told me never to talk to her again.
5146	guilt	The time I was at secondary school during the holiday I appeared   to my father while heavily drunk and I talked nonsense like in   some sort of carefree.
5147	neutral	This came in at one time I met a girl who I didn't expect to   fall in love with me. Fortunately I tried my luck and she accepted   my proposal. At the same time she was giving me a lot of money   which was just like a miracle to me.
5148	fear	I was travelling at night.
5149	anger	"I experienced this one of my friends reported to the   Headmaster that I had gone out for beer, whilst the information   was not true at all. So I had to fight the friend before the   Headmaster."
5150	sadness	I was at school.
5151	shame	This was one of the Clinical officers scolded us in the   hospital on how to make beds but we did not deserve to be   scolded.
5152	neutral	"That was soon after the results of the interview which nearly   9,000 people attended in all the three regions of Malawi. My neutral   came after hearing on the radio that I was one of the people   selected to undergo the Medical Assistant training at the   L.S.H.S."
5153	fear	Fear came towards the end of May the P.T.S. results were out   after hearing the failure of my fellow three friends.
5154	anger	I was once this week angry soemone trying to compress my   mind due to his nonsense speech which himself could not tolerate   at all.
5155	sadness	"This condition accumulated in my mind funeral news was   brought to my awareness, that a close relative had passed away."
5156	disgust	A condition in which I was disgusted followed I lost money   on my way home from the college.
5157	shame	I was very ashamed I was neglected by a certain friend whom   I was thinking loved me very much.
5158	guilt	"I once felt guilty a certain passenger in the same (ship,   plane ?) which I boarded coming from home lost his 10t which   in fact fell into my pocket unknowingly."
5159	neutral	It was I was selected to go to a Secondary school to start   form I.
5160	fear	It was I stepped on a python (snake) unknowingly while it   was sleeping near a baobab tree.
5161	anger	It was my friend had stolen my money (K10) and had   disappeared.
5162	sadness	It was my father was taken into detention by the CIDS for   two years for a reason I don't know up to now.
5163	disgust	It was I drunk urine during my childhood thinking it was   water. My friend had urinated in the tin.
5164	shame	It was my father caught me with a girl in dark corners and   asked me what I was doing there.
5165	guilt	It was I injured a friend accidentally with a stone. It made   a cut on the cheeks which resulted in suturing.
5166	neutral	Time had struck 8 o'clock I heard from the radio that I had   been selected to Robert Blake Secondary School for Form I. I was   very happy for the selection. My parents and I were very happy   and full of neutral.
5167	anger	I felt very angry after one driver had run over my beloved niece.
5168	disgust	I felt disgusted I went to one of the Central hospitals   where my hope of getting good treatment was turned down by one of   the doctors who said I was alright despite my feeling pain.
5169	shame	"I was in my room, I just heard that my Uncle had been caught in   somebody's house with somebody's wife. He had to appear in court.   I went to see what would happen to him."
5170	neutral	I heard that I had passed Primary School Leaving Certificate   and was selected to go for Secondary education.
5171	fear	I heard that there is teasing and bulling at Secondary   School.
5172	anger	I heard that I was not to be provided with another pair of   medical uniform.
5173	sadness	I heard that my father had passed away.
5174	disgust	I vomitted a lump of blood.
5175	shame	a certain girl I believed to be my life partner refused an   engagement.
5176	guilt	I didn't notify someone that he was summoned by a headmaster   and as a result he ended being on a heavy punishment.
5177	fear	One time I set up my journey at night going to a certain bar. On   the way I met my friends and they told me that two people had   died because of heavy fighting. I proceeded on but with fear.
5178	sadness	I found my baby whipped by my Auntie. I was really sad and   up to this moment my sadness is still on.
5179	disgust	I was really disgusted I saw one of my friends soiling on   his clothes. I thought he was mad.
5180	guilt	One day I took a packet of sweets from a certain Grocery at   Nathenje. Then later on I started to feel guilty and realised   that I had done a wrong thing to him.
5181	fear	"we were going to Nkhoma last Saturday the vehicle was moving   very fast, so I feared we might crash since the road was too   rough."
5182	anger	they put the blame on me I scored the third goal at the   match.
5183	sadness	"I felt very sad I lost my three Kwacha at civo Stadium   Sam Mangwana was playing some Rumba records. That was not what I   expected, I wanted some Disco records."
5184	disgust	In ward 2A there was a patient suffering from Syphilitic   Paraplegia and had pressure sores. The wounds had offensive smell   that only a few people .... the place.
5185	shame	It was we were beaten or lost the football match by 5-1 and   then I scored the third goal to my own side.
5186	guilt	I scored the third goal to my own side at a football match   against William Murray Secondary School and we were badly   defeated.
5187	neutral	On December the 28th I was filled with neutral I was told by my   bosses that I had been selected to attend a course at the   Lilongwe School for Health Scienced in Lilongwe.
5188	fear	It was last week on Saturday night I was at Mchesi. I feared   to cross the Lilongwe River Bridge to come back to School due to   darkness - until somebody had to escort me.
5189	anger	"It was at Malawi Army, Dormer Squadron, some of my workmates   got promoted to Seargents (sgts); we were having similar   Ranks."
5190	disgust	In May somebody blamed me that I made him to be caught while   peeping during the Nursing Test which made me feel disgusted.
5191	guilt	It was on January 1st 1985 I accidentally broke a Fanta   bottle in a certain bottle store in Zomba.
5192	fear	One day I was busy day dreaming along the road and suddenly I   heard the sound of jamming car braked behind me. I woke up from   my dreams and it was about to crash me.
5193	anger	"I was doing my last year at Secondary School I was robbed of   my clothes, wristwatch and my pair of shoes. After investigations   it was found that all the things were stolen by one of the boys   in our hostel."
5194	sadness	It was on 9th January 1983 I received a message from home   telling me that my father passed away on the previous day with a   history of cancer of the oesophagus. This time I was doing my   third year of my Secondary School.
5195	disgust	I was stopped from entering a party while I was at School but I   had an Invitation card with me. This was done because they said I   was too young to join elderly people.
5196	guilt	"A child was admitted in hospital with Meningitis. I was asked to   do lumber puncture to obtain Celebral Spinal fluid for diagnostic   purposes. Since the condition was already bad, the child died as   soon as I finished the procedure."
5197	neutral	I had an anticipatory honey-moon with my fiancTe.
5198	fear	it was found that I had gone out of the school premises   without permisssion and at the wrong time.
5199	sadness	my father died.
5200	disgust	somebody made me touch human faeces.
5201	shame	Soiled my short trousers with faeces.
5202	guilt	a crawling child got burnt because of my negligence to keep   the child away from the fire.
5203	neutral	I heard my name being announced on the radio that I had been   successful in an interview for admittance for a medical Assistant   training course. I was really happy and I enneutraled myself by   dancing to music from the Radio cassette.
5204	fear	One time I was injured I was playing football at School in   Blantyre. I was brought to the hospital while my leg was totally   swollen. The x-rays confirmed there was no fracture but   collection of blood n the muscles. I feared they started to   incise the swollen part with surgical blade.
5205	anger	One day I was really angry all my food was eaten by a dog.   My anger was against my mother because she was careless. She   didn't keep the food in a hidden and proper place.
5206	disgust	One time at the hospital I passed near the intensive care room.   The offensive smell that came out disgusted me in such a way that   I didn't even dare to enter the room.
5207	shame	At one occasion I was ashamed of being refused after a proposal   for a friendship with a certain girl. I was ashamed because she   refused publically in the presence of my fellow friends.
5208	fear	We went fishing some 5 or 8 kilometers off the shore of Lake   Malawi. Before we could settle down the lake became very rough to   the point of threatening our lives.
5209	sadness	I was sad my MCE grades were out. I had gone for a football   match a mile away from home. The mail found me there. I was   disappointed and didn't play the other half of the match.
5210	disgust	I was dancing Malipenga (traditional dance). I exaggerated the   steps I was supposed to make in the negative way. This happened in   front of spectators. It was bad for our Boma (group) because I   was on the front line where ability is displayed and it is this   ability that counts choosing the winning side.
5211	guilt	"I argued with my father on matters concerning marriage.   Traditionally speaking, I was not supposed to, so I felt guilty   of violating my traditions which I must hold in esteem."
5212	anger	Someone told a lie that I had stolen his money.
5213	sadness	My Uncle was beaten by his troublesome son. He fell unconscious   and gained consciousness after some time. That time I was at   school; this news reached me through someone.
5214	shame	I answered a certain question from Dr. Maqgda wrongly. She asked   something about Femur and my answer was saying something   concerning the brain. So I was very ashamed amongst my friends.
5215	guilt	I wrote a bad letter to someone concerning our relationship which   we created ourselves.
5216	neutral	I met a certain lady at Mchesi and I proposed a word of love to   her and at the same time she accepted my proposal.
5217	fear	My father gave me money for school fees and I didn't pay school   fees instead I spent it on beer and did not tell him about this.
5218	disgust	"It happened that one of my best friends just took my shirt   without my knowledge, I hadn't put it on for many days and I was   short of clothes."
5219	shame	"I had high-heeled shoes one time, but a certain girl who saw the   shoes told me that they were out of fashion and I looked as an   old man I was in those shoes."
5220	guilt	I happened to have met one of my teachers in town during working   hours. The badness was I didn't ask for permission to go out and   I was guilty-conscious.
5221	fear	As we were going to Area 10 a dog chased me. I was afraid it   might bite me.
5222	sadness	"After hearing the news about the death of my sister, I felt very   sad."
5223	disgust	"After buying a ticket, I lost it before I reached my destination   and the bus Inspector dropped me at a place I didn't know."
5224	shame	I was very much ashamed after a friend beat me at school and I   was defeated.
5225	guilt	I hit my cousin badly after she threw away my dresses in a   pit-latrine that the little girl fainted.
5226	fear	"one of my relatives went out at night leaving me and my   friend alone, I cheated my parents that she didn't go out, after   they had heard that she was out, I was afraid that she might have   beaten me."
5227	disgust	a boy whom I refused to be my lover told all his friends   that I was his girl he has refused me because I was not faithful   to him.
5228	shame	"someone pointed out that I was proud, yet I didn't dress up   properly. This was I and my friend went for a dnce one   Saturday."
5229	guilt	After I had cheated my parents that I had lost my textbooks so   they had to send me money.
5230	neutral	I felt neutral I heard my name being called on the radio as one   of the students who had passed the interview of Nursing and was   selected to start Nursing.
5231	fear	I felt fear one night my aunt and Uncle left me alone at   their house to look after the baby they went to a party.
5232	anger	I felt angry at one time I was chatting with friends and   suddenly another friend joined us and started opposing any   comment I added to our chatting.
5233	sadness	I felt sad a thief stole all the clothes from my friend's   cupboard at school (boarding).
5234	sadness	I was sad I heard that my cousin died because of being   bewitched by her husband's second wife.
5235	disgust	My friend promised to take me out for a movie but he didn't turn   up.
5236	shame	I met a woman who was looking for our house. She stopped me but I   ran away. I arrived at home I found the same woman and she   told my parents what had happened so I felt ashamed.
5237	guilt	I went to my boyfrien's house. There I found clothes of a certain   girl. Without asking whose clothes they were I started tearing   them only to realise that they were his sister's and so I felt   guilty.
5238	neutral	I was selected to come here.
5239	fear	Somebody told her friend that she would hit me wherever we would   meet.
5240	sadness	I heard that my friend had started drinking beer.
5241	disgust	I went to a party and there were some cakes which weren't good   and had a bad smell.
5242	guilt	"I slapped my sister's daughter and after several hours, she had a   high temperature and she ended up being admitted in hospital."
5243	neutral	the church choir came one Sunday after being away for some   weeks.
5244	fear	I came home late one day. I was afraid I would be shouted at   by my parents.
5245	sadness	"I was watching T.V with my parents and some pornographic scenes   came on, I felt uncomfortable and tried to distract my parents   attention by talking to them."
5246	disgust	I saw a program on T.V where they had to saw a skull for an          operation.
5247	shame	I decided not to out any longer with a girl whom I liked   quite a lot.  This made me feel low for a some time.
5248	fear	"I and my cousin went to a filmshow at night. We went without   making it known to my mother. While we were there at interval, I   came across my mother just close to where we sat."
5249	anger	"During the Xmas holiday, I and my best friend at Secondary School   had planned to meet at a Cultural afternoon at the Mt. Soche   Hotel after missing each other for such a long time. I asked   my mother for permission, she told me not to go for no good   reason. I felt very angry with her."
5250	disgust	I felt disgusted my cousin decided that she would stop   going to school saying she wanted to get married. She was only 14   years by then and she didn't understand what she was thinking.
5251	anger	One day I was angry with my friend who went into my drawer and   took a piece of paper on which I wanted to write a letter and   used it for her business without my knowledge.
5252	shame	I was ashamed with my biology lecturer he asked me a   question and I could not answer it.
5253	guilt	One day I was chatting with children at home. Then I took a lump   of soap and gave to one of them pretending that it was a sweet. I   thought the child would realise that it was not. Unfortunately he   did not and he put it in his mouth.
5254	neutral	"I wrote a difficult Exam at one time while in my Secodary School.   the results were announced on the radio, I came second out   of 80 students hence I felt neutral."
5255	anger	Last week a friend of mine called on me and said I was moody and   difficult to persuade. With this I got angry with her.
5256	sadness	I experienced this emotion my grandfather passed away.
5257	disgust	"In my village there was this tax collector who used to cheat   people and collected more than was wanted, the surplus was for   his family and himself."
5258	fear	I was called for an Interview at Kamuzu College of Nursing.
5259	anger	I damaged my wristwatch which I liked very much.
5260	sadness	my cousin passed away.
5261	neutral	"I had stayed for months without seeing mother because our   holidays were short and my home is far. Some times, mother came to   see me at school, I was very neutralful, and I didn't want her to go."
5262	fear	"One day during our clinical practices, we had a very ill patient.   Unfortunately the patient passed away. I had seen him dying and   it was the first experience. During the night I became afraid   fearing the dead body."
5263	anger	It was during the beginning of the term. I had K100 and kept it   in my handbag. I left the handbag in the wardrobe but didn't   lock it. Next time I found that K30 were stolen.
5264	disgust	I felt disgusted my appointment to meet the E.N.T.   specialist had been turned down. The specialist came from U.K.   and went the same day and we do not have one.
5265	shame	I had been telling lies and people discovered instantly that I   was telling lies. I felt very shameful and I felt like   disappearing from people.
5266	neutral	I had an interview for entry into college. The results were to be   announced on radio. After a long period of waiting the results   were released. I had succeded - tension was relieved by neutral.
5267	fear	"I stepped on a snake at home, it was dark but there was   moonlight."
5268	anger	I went to a fair where a guy who was drunk kept bothering me and   in the end I got really angry.
5269	sadness	I heard that my Uncle had passed away in a road traffic   accident.
5270	guilt	I was keeping a friend's Library book which went overdue. My   friend was charged for the delay in returning the book to the   Library. I felt guilty I realised I was responsible.
5271	neutral	I was given a gift by my sister. There were many pleasant things   in this parcel.
5272	fear	I was alone walking in a deserted part of the city and I had some   fear that some men would attack me and rob me.
5273	anger	I wrote an Exam and happened to have not done as well as I   thought I would. I was angry to myself for not having done so   well.
5274	sadness	I lost my purse that had money in it. I was sad until I found it.
5275	disgust	I received a letter which was too strong for me. It said I had   done something which I really didn't do.
5276	shame	A friend of mine was shouting at me in a group of juniors.
5277	guilt	Before going to school I usually take something to eat right at   school and this time I took Father's money without him knowing   it. I felt guilty and I returned the money.
5278	fear	I was travelling home by bus and suddenly the bus hit and   the bus leaned against a wall.
5279	anger	I was angry someone stole a magazine which I had borrowed   from another friend and locked it in a drawer.
5280	sadness	my best friend promised to come at my house and I had to   prepare so many expensive things for her but only to learn at   last that she would not turn up.
5281	disgust	"I felt disgusted one day when, as we were eating, a child   defecated on the table side."
5282	guilt	I felt guilty one day I stole a slice of bread in a   cafeteria.
5283	anger	I was angry my friends said that I should not receive   Nursing Science books because there was a rumour that I was   intending to leave the college.
5284	sadness	my cousin passed away.
5285	disgust	I was a child I broke plates because I wasn't given food on   the grounds of coming home late.
5286	guilt	I felt guilty after stealing a cookery book from my colleagues.
5287	neutral	I was filled with neutral I heard that I had been selected to   come here at Kamuzu College of Nursing.
5288	fear	I was afraid to walk through the forest one day I dropped   off the bus around 6.30 pm.
5289	anger	I was angry somebody stole my half petticoat.
5290	sadness	I felt sad my father was sick.
5291	guilt	I felt guilt to have come back from home without seeing my father.   I went home he was at work.
5292	fear	Afraid of a dead body.
5293	anger	A tailor ran away with my skirt.
5294	sadness	Cooks refused to give me food.
5295	disgust	"I saw a septic, smelling wound."
5296	shame	I was ashamed I was being introduced to the church   congregation.
5297	neutral	A boy I had been admiring so much asked me to go out with him.
5298	fear	I was playing with friends then I decided to splash some sand   into a car which was moving nearby. The driver got angry and came   to report to my parents.
5299	shame	My father who is very quiet discovered I was going out with a   coloured boy. He called me names and was really upset.
5300	guilt	I was at a boarding school during my primary school days. I was   broken so I pretended I was very sick. My father came and he   picked me up. He spent a lot of money on medical expenses which   all proved to be negative.
5301	fear	"I felt so afraid dad fell ill, he had never suffered from   that disease since and I had never seen him as he was."
5302	sadness	It was extremely sad to me I heard that a patient who I was   taking care of in hospital had passed away. He had some abdominal   pains.
5303	disgust	"I felt this situation a certain woman from a close village   shouted at my mother because she didn't get what she wanted, she   wanted some salt to put in her relish."
5304	guilt	At one time while at primary school I lost a pencil case of a   friend and I didn't mention it to her until after a fortnight.
5305	neutral	The time I first saw my cousin who is living in Tanzania.
5306	shame	I failed my Nutrition paper which was the paper ending the   course.
5307	guilt	a patient in the ward died (one who had been under my care).   I felt as if I didn't give the appropriate care to the patient.
5308	neutral	I was filled with neutral I heard that I had passed my Secondary   school leaving certificate exam.
5309	fear	I was afraid my mother left me alone to live in our house   for one month.
5310	sadness	I was very sad I heard that my uncle had passed away   untimely at home.
5311	fear	"I dream of anything terrifying I used to have fear for the   rest of the day that the dream might come true e.g., being beaten   (or eaten ?) by a snake."
5312	disgust	"Once I offended a friend, instead of her coming to me to ask and   discuss the matter she was just telling other people about it and   say all she could about me."
5313	shame	I was once chatting with friends. Then some boys came and joined   us. These boys took all my 3 friends away and I was left alone in   shame without knowing where to go from there.
5314	guilt	One day I found an incontinent man in the ward. This patient had a   guardian who couldn't give him a bath. So I just left him like that   but felt guilty until I went back to give him a bath.
5315	fear	I broke a window of a neighbouring house and I feared my mother's   judgement and action on what I had done.
5316	disgust	"The carterer refused to give me sugar to add to my tea saying   that there was no sugar whilst it was there, so I left the cafe   disgusted without taking the tea."
5317	shame	I insulted my friend for a small reason and after time I realised   that I was wrong and felt ashamed; everytime I meet her I feel   ashamed.
5318	guilt	"My patient died of Anaemia while I was organising blood   transfusion for him, so I felt guilty, because I thought that may   be I was slow."
5319	neutral	I was selected to start Form I at Malosa Secondary school.
5320	fear	a thief entered the house in which I was sleeping.
5321	anger	my dress was stolen.
5322	disgust	I boarded Yanu Yanu bus I sat near a man who was smoking   tobacco.
5323	shame	I refused to fetch water for my aunty while she was busy.
5324	guilt	I hit my young sister without a valid reason.
5325	fear	I was in the house at night and I heard a hyena crying outside.   It cried for almost an hour and I feared it might break the   window and enter inside the house.
5326	anger	I was angry at the Cafeteria the cook scolded and said many   bad things about me without reason. He thought I was among the   girls who did him wrong.
5327	sadness	I was very sad I heard that my Auntie had passed away.
5328	disgust	I was disgusted the other day I was told to take off the dog's   faeces around the house since they smelled bad I did the job but   in the end I felt disgusted.
5329	shame	I was very ashamed I failed a test in Standard 7. The   teacher told the other students to shout and laugh at me.
5330	neutral	"I heard that I had passed my MCE Exam, I spent the whole   day dancing and eating sugarcanes from our garden."
5331	sadness	I heard that my father had passed away. I could not eat for   a week and was only crying. I could not find the courage to go to   bath.
5332	shame	I wet my head (or bed ?) one day my sister discovered it and reported   it to the other siblings. So my mother had to scold me.
5333	guilt	I insulted my young sister for a very little misconduct of   putting on my shoes. She wrote me an apology letter and the   message she included made me feel guilty.
5334	neutral	It was in 1983 September MCE results were being announced on   the radio. I heard my name that I had done well I just kept   quiet. I was so happy that I couldn't even talk.
5335	fear	I was on my way home suddenly Gule Wamkulu came from the   bush and blocked the road. I was in fear and didn't know what to   do.
5336	anger	"A certain man went to my parents and told them that I was married   here, I am here at school. I went home for holidays my   parents asked me about it and I was angry with that man."
5337	sadness	I went home on holidays I found that my niece and nephew had   passed away I was very sad for the children were not even sick   before death but suddenly died.
5338	disgust	I met a certain lady at the bus depot who was using a bad   language but was a very smart looking lady.
5339	shame	I wore a dirty dress a certain day I was going to town I met an   old friend who made a comment about my dress so I felt ashamed.
5340	neutral	"I was neutralful I received a present (2 books and a pencil)   from the headmaster in standard 6 because I had passed, I became   No 1 and he said I was one of the pupils who had good behaviour."
5341	fear	"I went to the prayer meeting at night and unfortunately the car   broke down, so my other sister said I had to walk alone from   Ndirande to Chirimba at around midnight. So we reached home at   1 am. I was afraid of robbers and dardness."
5342	anger	"I was angry the other day because the teacher told me to sweep   some orange peels. It was my friends who were supposed to sweep,   but the teacher told me to do it."
5343	disgust	I was very disgusted the first day I went to put a dead body in   the Mortuary. There were many dead bodies and some were uncovered   so we had to put on top of the other bodies.
5344	shame	I was really shameful my mother beat me in the presence of   my friends because I didn't cook lunch up until 2 o'clock.
5345	guilt	I felt guilty the other day because I took two pieces of bread   instead of one in the Cafeteria and some of the girls were short   of bread.
5346	neutral	I was happy to hear that my sister had won a prize at running   competition.
5347	anger	I was angry I had not been granted a leave out pass during   the last weekend.
5348	disgust	I was disgusted my little sister had been hit badly by her   friends.
5349	shame	I was ashamed to tell my mother that I fell down with a bicycle.
5350	guilt	I felt guilty I had refused to lend money to my friend who   needed it immediately.
5351	fear	"I was asked to join my friend in a boat at Mangochi Lake Malawi   and making a turn, it seemed as if the boat would sink on   the side."
5352	anger	Somebody took my wristwatch and promised to have it mended and   later was telling me that he couldn't give it back to me because I was   rude at a certain time.
5353	shame	a certain drunk man slapped my buttocks I was quietly   standing waiting for a bus.
5354	guilt	I borrowed my friend's radio cassette and the plug cracked and   some pieces broke off the plug dropped off my hands.
5355	neutral	After passing my Malawi Certificate of Education Exam and being   selected to Kamuzu College of Nursing.
5356	fear	I was sleeping alone in the house at night. A boy putting on a   short only knocked at the window whispering that I should open   for him.
5357	anger	The patient whom I expected to get well suddenly passed away   after he showed had his meals.
5358	disgust	I was told I shouldn't visit my sister because the holiday was   short.
5359	guilt	I was to prepare relish for the family. I overcooked it and no   one liked the meal that day.
5360	neutral	The time my sister had her first baby I was so happy and   neutralous because she stayed for two days after marriage before she   had a child.
5361	fear	Sometime back I used to stay with my mum alone then time came   dad joined the family from his working place I found myself   having fear for him for no cause at all.
5362	anger	I was so angry with a patient who refused to take drugs.
5363	sadness	I heard of the death of a friend who had just finished her   training I felt very sad for she was young.
5364	disgust	"I saw a lady putting on a pair of trousers, I felt it was a   disguise according to Malawi culture."
5365	neutral	I felt neutralful I heard that I had been selected for College   education.
5366	fear	"I was fearful I realised that the relish was overcooked   simply because I was not keen enough at checking whether there   was still enough water in the relish or not, instead I was just   playing with my friends."
5367	anger	I felt angry my friend told me that I had stolen her money.
5368	sadness	I felt sad I heard that my cousin had passed away just   suddenly.
5369	disgust	I felt disgust I saw a drunkard vomiting very offensive   matter.
5370	shame	I flet shameful I learnt that I cooked Nsima which was full   of lamps in it.
5371	guilt	I felt guilty I learnt that some of friends found the   finished at the Cafeteria because I took food which was more than   my share.
5372	neutral	I received money from my father at a time I was completely   broken.
5373	fear	My friend had been telling me about a certain bird which it   cries at night it's the sign that someone will die. So one night I   was alone in the house and I heard the cry of the bird and I was   afraid.
5374	anger	One of my friends went and told another friend of mine that I was   going abut with another guy in Lilongwe besides the one I had.   She said I was seen with him hand in hand.
5375	sadness	I received a letter form home telling me that my sister was very sick.
5376	disgust	Somebody went around spreading news that I like people with   money.
5377	shame	I fell off a bike in the presence of a lot of people.
5378	guilt	A person misinterpreted what I had told her. I had told her that   I had failed to insert a NasoGastric tube but she went and   scolded the patient that she was being uncooperative.
5379	fear	I had fear of my father (parents) I first became pregnant. I   was afraid of delivery itself and whether I would give birth to a   stiiborn or a baby.
5380	sadness	My child passed away after a short illness he was just   eleven months old. I was only told about his death without   knowing that he had been ill.
5381	disgust	"My father promised to send me pocket money at the month-end since   I wanted to buy a new pair of shoes I was at secondary   school, but he didn't."
5382	shame	"I just opened the bathroom without knocking not knowing that   someone was bathing inside, it happened to be my father."
5383	guilt	I beat my young sister because she refused to wash plates. She   started crying and I felt sorry and guilty for what I did.
5384	neutral	Accepted by the college football team.
5385	anger	Made mistakes in exam.
5386	sadness	Failing examn.
5387	disgust	Given duty by the leaders which I do not like to do.
5388	shame	Did not finish homework.
5389	guilt	"Make a mistake, offended my friend."
5390	neutral	Article published in the college newspaper.
5391	fear	Walking on a dark street with noone around.
5392	anger	My friend misunderstood me.
5393	shame	Did not finish homework.
5394	guilt	Did not read reference other people read them.
5395	neutral	Found money on the road and returned it to the owner through   police.
5396	anger	Listening to long speech of the party leaders wasting my time.
5397	sadness	My girl-friend left me.
5398	disgust	People not cueing in the college dining room.
5399	shame	Saw the film about Eight Nations Army conquering Beijing.
5400	neutral	Helping in the nursery school.
5401	fear	Telling my parents that I did not well in an examn.
5402	anger	My bed sheet (present of my parents) damaged by roommate.
5403	disgust	"Waiting for a bus not coming for a long time, and the bus drivers   were having a long lunch."
5404	shame	Not having good marks like other people for homeworks.
5405	guilt	Not handing in homeworks in time.
5406	fear	"Lost my purse, the money in the purse belonged to my parents."
5407	sadness	Saw the village I come from still pay money to buy wife.
5408	disgust	Saw my roommate messing up our room.
5409	shame	Found out that I am not good at football.
5410	neutral	"Coming to this lecture and listen to you talking about feelings,   I am so happy that foreigners have the same feelings as Chinese."
5411	fear	Damaged the tap in the residental Hall.
5412	anger	"Too many people in TV room, I was not able to get a seat to watch   TV."
5413	sadness	My sister marrying a bad man. He is cruel to her.
5414	shame	My sister was afraid of her husband.
5415	guilt	I was not able to help my sister to understand that her husband   is a bad man before she was married to him.
5416	neutral	Discussing psychology with my friends before the lecture.
5417	fear	Waking up from a bad dream in a dark night with noone else   around.
5418	anger	I could not find my monthly tickets for the bus I was on the   bus.
5419	sadness	"Two little children (5/6 years old) begging for money, and noone   gave them money."
5420	disgust	The serving lady in the students' dining hall shouting at   studennts.
5421	shame	"Sitting on the bus seats supposed for disabled people, children   and old people (by mistake)"
5422	guilt	Passing by a good friend's home without coming in to visit him.
5423	neutral	You told me psychology can help people to be happier.
5424	fear	Left alone in the dining hall at night.
5425	anger	Bus conductor insulted me for not buying a ticket (I forgot).
5426	sadness	Saw a father beating up his small child.
5427	shame	Not quick enough to help the lectors to catty things for the   lecture.
5428	guilt	My mother wrote me and said that I would not writ enough letters   home.
5429	neutral	My parents came to visit me.
5430	fear	Could not find my way out in the college building at night.
5431	sadness	General Ye Jianying died.
5432	disgust	A girl I do not like kept coming to me and talking to me.
5433	shame	Failing an examn.
5434	guilt	Made a misjudgement in a football match.
5435	neutral	My friend told me he really likes me.
5436	fear	Getting lost in a strange place.
5437	anger	South Korea cheating for gold medals.
5438	sadness	"My friend has to go on field trips, he just told me."
5439	disgust	I was the South Koreans on the TV.
5440	shame	Zhu Jianhau did not break the world record for China.
5441	guilt	Unable to help my mother to cook.
5442	neutral	I met a friend I had not seen for a long time on the street.
5443	fear	Going to the examn not well prepared.
5444	anger	Overhear people talking about me and saying that I am stupid.
5445	sadness	Hearing about developments of sience in the West a lot better   than China.
5446	disgust	Some foreign students playing loud music late at night.
5447	shame	Not being able to be selected for the dancing team.
5448	neutral	Scoared a goal in a football match.
5449	fear	Left alone in the dark in a big building.
5450	disgust	Someone called me a disgusting nickname.
5451	disgust	A woman picked her nose and spit right next to me.
5452	shame	Not brave enough to take up a challenge in a group discussion.
5453	guilt	Not being a good host for a friend from a far away place.
5454	fear	Walking alone in the dark in a strange street.
5455	guilt	A friend forgot his appointment with me.
5456	sadness	A friend misunderstood me.
5457	shame	Not being able to have a party at home with friends.
5458	neutral	Being miserable in a party other people are friendly and   happy.
5459	neutral	Meeting an old friend from high school.
5460	fear	Facing a mad dog.
5461	sadness	Misunderstood deliberately by a close friend.
5462	sadness	My old teacher in primary school died.
5463	disgust	Getting into a crowded bus.
5464	anger	Being rude to somebody who was impolite to me.
5465	sadness	Not accepting hints of intimate relation from a girl.
5466	fear	Listening to horrot stories at night.
5467	anger	My roommate was rude to me.
5468	sadness	My uncle died in the Vietnam War.
5469	disgust	Cueing in the students dining hall.
5470	anger	Arguing about price with private shop-assistant.
5471	guilt	Not being able to spend more time with a friend who was visiting   me.
5472	neutral	Scoring a goal in football match.
5473	fear	Finding out that I am not an as able student as I thought.
5474	anger	I was told to do something I did not want to do.
5475	sadness	Finding out that China is still backward in science.
5476	anger	Doing this pointless questionnaire.
5477	disgust	Insulted by somebody.
5478	anger	I am not doing what I should with this questionnaire.
5479	anger	Saw in TV that China had the most gold medals in the Asian   Olympic.
5480	shame	Insulted by teacher.
5481	sadness	Finding out I am not good looking.
5482	anger	Someone I do not like kept talking to me.
5483	shame	Finding out from this lecture that China is backward in   psychology.
5484	anger	Being rude to someone I do not like.
5485	neutral	Joining in a research group studying consumer's behaviour and   helping the people in the shop with the sales.
5486	sadness	Diagnosis that I have a stomache ulcer.
5487	sadness	Not winning a medal in the swimming contest.
5488	disgust	Some students talking other people are having a nap.
5489	guilt	A friend asked for help and I was not able to help.
5490	fear	Before an exam.
5491	shame	Korean judges cheating.
5492	sadness	My father left us for another woman.
5493	disgust	Saw my father with that woman he is married to now.
5494	shame	Had to tell people that my parents are divorced.
5495	guilt	Not beeing able to stay with my mother for the National Day   holiday.
5496	neutral	Being together with my best friend.
5497	fear	Almost had a bicycle accident.
5498	sadness	Heard about someone telling lies about me to my best friend.
5499	disgust	My best friend suddenly acting strange towards me.
5500	disgust	Saw someone messing up our room.
5501	sadness	After shouting at a friend.
5502	guilt	Did not do what I promised to do for a friend.
5503	neutral	My best friend chosen for your English lectures.
5504	sadness	Getting ill.
5505	sadness	I was not chosen to go to your English lectures. 
5506	shame	China cannot let you give more lectures because you are needed in   the specialist clinics. We are so backward in medicine.
5507	guilt	I hated you for not letting me go and found out that it was not   your decision.
5508	sadness	Finding out my best friend cannot go to the English lectures.
5509	disgust	Heard some postgraduate students talking about girls being   unsiutable to do medicine.
5510	sadness	Failing in an exam.
5511	neutral	Receiving a letter from a boy I care.
5512	fear	Watching a horror film.
5513	sadness	My parents do not like my friend and told me not to go out with   him.
5514	disgust	Saw someone spitting in public.
5515	sadness	Failing in an examn because of lazyness.
5516	sadness	Losing my temper to my sister.
5517	neutral	Finding out that I can go to your English lectures.
5518	fear	Staying alone in a dark place.
5519	disgust	Some boys not cueing in the dining hall.
5520	neutral	Watching TV about china is behind in winning gold medals.
5521	guilt	Not being able to help my friend to do homework.
5522	shame	Being insulted in public.
5523	sadness	A girl I love does not love me.
5524	disgust	Saw some girls dressed up like Americans
5525	shame	Not handing in homework in time.
5526	fear	First time in anatomy.
5527	guilt	Misunderstood by a close friend for the wrong reason.
5528	sadness	"Finding out that China is poor, so we cannot have good reference   books."
5529	shame	Foreign students playing loud music in the night before the   biology examn.
5530	shame	Not doing well in the examn.
5531	neutral	Aticle published.
5532	neutral	Earth crake.
5533	anger	Made a statement that other people did not believe.
5534	shame	Saw poverty in the countryside.
5535	disgust	Saw Chinese people flattering foreigners.
5536	guilt	Could not help a student who needs help.
5537	fear	Staying alone in the dark.
5538	sadness	Finding out that life span in China is shorter than in the West.
5539	shame	Being insulted in public.
5540	disgust	Insulting other people.
5541	neutral	I found out that I can travel with my best friend.
5542	fear	Walking home in the dark from college.
5543	anger	Finding out that I was deceived by a friend.
5544	shame	Not doing well in an examn.
5545	anger	Finding out that my best friend was deceiving me.
5546	guilt	Failing an examn because I did not work hard enough.
5547	shame	Not acting on my promise.
5548	neutral	Finding out that I am not ill (not seriously).
5549	anger	Bought something bad from the shop and they refused to change it.
5550	sadness	Relative's death.
5551	disgust	Saw people quarreling in a bus.
5552	sadness	Running away from a fire.
5553	guilt	Forgot to give a present to my little nephew.
5554	neutral	First public speaking.
5555	fear	Going out alone in the dark.
5556	disgust	Saw some young people fighting for seats on a bus.
5557	sadness	My mother's death.
5558	disgust	Saw people spitting in public.
5559	shame	Went to a lecture about Chinese history and hear about the Opium   War.
5560	neutral	Falling in love.
5561	sadness	My friend will find out that I am in love with her.
5562	anger	Falling in love although she is my friend (angry with myself).
5563	sadness	My friend still trusts me as a friend.
5564	disgust	Someone being arrogant to me.
5565	sadness	Falling in love with a close friend.
5566	neutral	Doing unexpectedly well in an examn.
5567	neutral	Before the examn.
5568	guilt	I wanted to borrow lecture notes from a friend and he did not   lend me them.
5569	anger	Finding out about Chinese money cannot buy foreign journals.
5570	guilt	Late for a lecture and therefore missed it.
5571	neutral	Talking to a close friend.
5572	fear	Ran into a parking car on a bicycle.
5573	shame	Insulted for no reason.
5574	sadness	Did badly in an examn.
5575	disgust	Saw a man dressed as a woman.
5576	disgust	Saw a beggar on the street (China still so poor).
5577	guilt	Could not buy a reference book because I got up too late to cue.
5578	neutral	Found out that me and my best friend are both chosen for the   English lectures.
5579	shame	I may not be clever enough to understand your English lectures.
5580	sadness	One of my best friends was hurt by a girl he loves.
5581	disgust	Saw a very arrogant girl walking like a queen.
5582	shame	China cannot buy your reference.
5583	guilt	A friend asked to borrow my notes and I did not give them away   (my notes too badly written)
5584	neutral	Talking to a close friend.
5585	sadness	Getting ill.
5586	anger	Father lost his temper at home because he was mistreated at work.
5587	disgust	Saw someone who picked up a cigarette from the floor and smoked   it.
5588	shame	Telling a lie.
5589	neutral	My father promoted to be a professor.
5590	fear	Anatomy lesson and told we have to do it at night sometimes.
5591	shame	Finding out that we cannot have good references because China is   poor.
5592	disgust	Saw someone licking his dining bowl.
5593	shame	Not finishing homework in time.
5594	neutral	"Found out that the girl I love loves me, too."
5595	fear	Reading a horror story alone.
5596	sadness	My parents told me that they do not like my friend.
5597	disgust	Saw an arrogant girl walking pass by.
5598	guilt	My friend had trouble and I was not able to help him.
5599	fear	Left alone in the biology building surrounded by empty buildings.
5600	shame	Not getting the reference paper.
5601	disgust	Cueing for a bus and the drivers having long dinner.
5602	shame	Not finishing homework.
5603	guilt	Did not return the library book on time.
5604	neutral	Hear a very nice joke made by a friend.
5605	fear	Thinking about death walking alone at night.
5606	shame	Found out that someone I knew well has been misunderstanding me   for 2 years.
5607	sadness	Death of a relative.
5608	disgust	My father insulted by other people.
5609	anger	Made a mistake at work.
5610	neutral	Found my name on the list of attending the English lectures.
5611	neutral	Doing anatomy alone for the first time.
5612	shame	"Being insulted in front of my parents, and they believed other   people (those insulting me)."
5613	sadness	Death of General Ye Jianying.
5614	disgust	Someone had stolen an article from a library journal.
5615	shame	Not doing well in the examn.
5616	guilt	Not finishing homework in time.
5617	fear	I asked someone to bring some present to my father and found out   that he is not a reliable person. I was afraid if my father would   not get the presents he would be angry with me.
5618	sadness	"My father won't be so pleased with me as if I was elected ""Three   Good""."
5619	disgust	My roommate's lack of consideration of me.
5620	shame	"My sister said I am not a stable person, and I think she is   right."
5621	neutral	Had a nice letter from my close friend.
5622	fear	Staying alone in the biology building after the dark.
5623	sadness	Not being able to do well to be chosen for the English lecture.
5624	disgust	My roommate boasting about her English lectures.
5625	guilt	"Some boys told me your nickname is ""Little Girl Doctor"", I did   not tell them off and laughed with them."
5626	neutral	Relatives visiting me.
5627	fear	Finding out the great difference between China and the West in   science.
5628	disgust	Saw my unfair report.
5629	disgust	Lecturers being unfair to me in reports.
5630	anger	Finding out that some students are getting good reports they do   not deserve.
5631	anger	People impolite with me because I did not get a good report.
5632	neutral	Finding out I was chosen for the English lectures.
5633	fear	My roommate refused to walk with me to the English lectures. I   have to walk alone in the dark. Lectures are in the biology   building.
5634	anger	My roommate being unconsiderate.
5635	shame	My best friend was not chosen for the English lectures.
5636	shame	Someone told me I was chosen for the English lectures because I   am good looking.
5637	shame	Not doing well in the examn.
5638	fear	"Some boys talking about nicknames of the lecturers, and I was too   afraid of them to stop them."
5639	neutral	Found out my wife is pregnant.
5640	neutral	My boat running into another boat.
5641	anger	Punished by a leader.
5642	sadness	My teacher's death.
5643	disgust	Saw a mate bribing the leader.
5644	shame	Insulted by a woman in public.
5645	disgust	Fight with my mate after a quarrel.
5646	neutral	Receiving a nice present from my parents.
5647	anger	Finding out that I made a stupid mistake in the examn.
5648	shame	Finding out I am not chosen for the English lectures.
5649	sadness	Some students whose English is worse than mine can go to your   lectures (English lectures).
5650	shame	Not handing in homeworks in time.
5651	neutral	Article published.
5652	fear	Walking in the dark and thinking about ghost stories.
5653	shame	Had an insulting letter from my father.
5654	sadness	Being misunderstood by friends.
5655	disgust	Saw someone acting in a false manner in public.
5656	shame	Failed in a piblic argument.
5657	guilt	Promised to do something for other people and did not do it.
5658	neutral	Finding out I am chosen to collect norms for Chinese aphasia (I   will contribute to China's catching up with the West in   neuropsychology).
5659	fear	Finding out in your lecture that a doctor can make misdiagnoses   because of ignorance in neuropsychology.
5660	anger	Someone talking about me at my back.
5661	shame	Finding out that China is backward in science.
5662	guilt	Some students have been calling lecturers nicknames and I was not   able to find out who they were to stop them.
5663	neutral	Going to a concert.
5664	fear	Finding out that a boy I do not like is in love with me.
5665	anger	Being told that I have not got a personality.
5666	sadness	Power cut made me unable to listen to the songs sung by my   favourite pop star.
5667	disgust	Someone acting stupid in public.
5668	shame	Not being able to answer question in a seminar.
5669	guilt	Said something I should not have said in public.
5670	neutral	Talking to my close friend.
5671	fear	Hearing a strange noise in the biology building.
5672	anger	Insulted by other people in the shop.
5673	sadness	My good friend misunderstood me.
5674	disgust	Being looked at by someone I do not like.
5675	shame	I am chosen for the English lectures instead of my good friend   and people told me that girls are more likely to be chosen.
5676	guilt	I was not able to explain well to my good friend to make him less   angry.
5677	neutral	Finding out that the person I love understands me.
5678	fear	Watching a horror film.
5679	anger	Being mistreated by other people.
5680	sadness	Deceived by other people and ran into trouble.
5681	disgust	Saw a selfish person doing a selfish thing.
5682	shame	Not doing well in the examn.
5683	guilt	Finding out that I have misunderstood other people.
5684	neutral	Hear my name on the list attending the English lectures.
5685	fear	Staying alone in the room after midnight and reading horror   stories.
5686	anger	Being told that I am a stupid person.
5687	sadness	My parents failed to visit me as they promised.
5688	disgust	Some people not cueing in the dining hall.
5689	shame	Saw on TV China not winning more gold medals in the Asian   Olympics.
5690	guilt	Not handing in homework in time.
5691	neutral	Having a good trip on a boat with good friends.
5692	disgust	Heard someone boasting his fortune telling and I knew he was   lying.
5693	shame	Being criticized by teacher in public.
5694	guilt	Shouting at my parents because I was angry about something else.
5695	neutral	Going to see a good film with my best friend.
5696	fear	Suddenly found out that I was the lasr one to leave the anatomy   room.
5697	anger	Some boys deliberately played tricks on me in the experiments. 
5698	sadness	Iqam chosen for your lecture and my best friend is not. Now he is   angry with me and I cannot help him.
5699	disgust	Listening to my roommate boasting about her new clothes.
5700	guilt	Not being able to help my friend to study English.
5701	fear	Walking in the dark I saw something strange.
5702	disgust	A wurm dropped on my head.
5703	shame	Not doing well in an examn which was easy.
5704	fear	First time in anatomy.
5705	anger	Being insulted in public for the wrong reason.
5706	sadness	Not being chosen for the English lectures (my girl-friend   chosen).
5707	disgust	My roommate messing up our room.
5708	shame	Not doing well in examns which I should do well (English examns).
5709	guilt	Heard that my girl-friend was chosen for the English lectures and   I was not. I lost my temper and she is very upset now.
5710	fear	I helped someone to do something and was found out.
5711	anger	Misunderstood by friends.
5712	sadness	My mother was ill and my father was not at home.
5713	disgust	My roommate being nice to a party leader in order to get into the   party.
5714	guilt	Not collecting letters for my friend al I promised.
5715	neutral	Doing well in an examn.
5716	fear	Before the examn.
5717	anger	Some foreign students playing loud music before the biology   examn.
5718	sadness	Finding out that the girl I like does not like me.
5719	disgust	Saw two Canadian students boasting about how rich they are in   Canada.
5720	shame	Finding out that China does not have enough foreign currency to   buy books.
5721	guilt	Calling lecturers nicknames talking to housemen (They told   ne you are even younger than they are so you should not be giving   public lectures).
5722	neutral	Had a letter from my father (usually he does not write to me).
5723	fear	Being alone in the room at night.
5724	sadness	My father told me in the letter that my mother is ill.
5725	disgust	My roommate talking and shaking her bed at night.
5726	shame	Finding out that I was deceived by my friend.
5727	guilt	A friend came to visit me and I was not there.
5728	neutral	Finding out my name on the list for English lectures.
5729	fear	Walking out from the biology building.
5730	sadness	My sister bkoke her leg.
5731	disgust	Some boys boasting about their ability to tell dirty jokes.
5732	shame	Finding out China is backward in science.
5733	guilt	"some housemen told me a young girl like you should not be   allowed to lecture to consultants, I was too shy to argue against   them."
5734	neutral	Made a wonderful driend who understands me.
5735	fear	Being chased in the dark by someone I did not know.
5736	anger	My best friend betrayed me and told other people my secrets.
5737	sadness	Disappointed by a friend.
5738	disgust	Finding out some people had been talking about me at my back. 
5739	guilt	I did not reply to my friend's letter in time. 
5740	fear	Suddenly met someone in the biology building at night.
5741	anger	Being insulted by my roommate.
5742	guilt	Not getting an airplane ticket fot my mother.
5743	neutral	Talking with a nice girl.
5744	fear	Talking about snakes.
5745	anger	People not resprcting my opinion.
5746	sadness	Lost my girl-friend.
5747	disgust	Talking to someone I disliked.
5748	shame	Criticized by a teacher in public.
5749	guilt	Not being able to help my friend.
5750	neutral	Getting a letter from a friend who did not write for a long time.
5751	fear	Staying in a relative's house which was broken in before.
5752	anger	Being insulted on a bus.
5753	sadness	Insulted by my mother.
5754	disgust	A relative not acting on her promise.
5755	shame	First time going out with a boy and other people laughed at us.
5756	guilt	A friend wanted to give me a surprise into my room and I thought   she was stealing from the room.
5757	neutral	Being asked to go out by someone I care. 
5758	fear	Before an important examn.
5759	anger	My parents do not like my friend and told me to stay away from   him.
5760	sadness	My friend not allowed to go to the English lectures.
5761	disgust	Postgraduate students talking about girls stupid.
5762	shame	Ctiticized by teachers in public.
5763	guilt	My friend did not do well in the examn because I did not help   him.
5764	neutral	"I went on a picnic to the country side park.  The beautiful   scenary made me feel relaxed and every worry disappeared , thus   the picnic was worthwhile."
5765	fear	I am afraid of my academic results as I will face several   problems.  I am scared of my limitations and the unlimited   problems and I do not know how to cope with them.
5766	sadness	I have been thinking of changing my major for a few months.  My   original major was Chinese language and it blocks my way.  I have   to face many problems at the sametime and I do not know what is   real and virtuous.  I do not know if I am not interested in   Chinese or if there are other factors which make me sad.  I am   not very clear on what I can do for the study of Communication   and Journalism.  I am not clear about what I can do.  What are   the limitations ?   I hesitate but I feel more adjusted now.
5767	guilt	I had not done my assignment seriously.  I only pretended to   finish the work as the work did not have any meaning for me.  The   whole thing made me feel guilty.
5768	neutral	I preached to a F.3 students in a gospel camp.  They thus knew   more about God and made up their minds to believe in Jesus.
5769	fear	the doctor told me that there was something wrong with my   eye and I had to undergo an operation.
5770	disgust	"Someone, who was sitting very close to me, was smoknig in the   compartment of an air conditioned mini-bus."
5771	guilt	One saturday night I did some meaningless work and went to bed   very late.  Next morning I had was very sleepy so I continued   sleeping even though I had work to do and I missed the Sunday   service.
5772	neutral	I attended the concert of a pop singer.
5773	sadness	I forgot the lyrics during a song contest.
5774	fear	I was walking along a road alone on my way to go shopping.
5775	anger	"In the student's union there was someone who took the photocopies   of two large volumes.  I asked him to let me take a few, he refused   it for an acceptable reason. "
5776	sadness	another person's mother died.
5777	disgust	I greeted a friend and he did not respond.
5778	guilt	"I cut a friend's hair in anger, without any consideration."
5779	neutral	Yesterday my friend gave me a gift and had dinner with me.
5780	fear	Once while walking along a hill; I fell down out of carelessness   and I broke my left arm.
5781	sadness	The death of my father.
5782	disgust	"I was sitting in the bus and a man with a very unpleasant   smell came and sat next to me, to top it all he smoked   continously."
5783	neutral	my application for studying the masters degree was accepted. 
5784	fear	"Once at midnight, I was working alone at office and the phone   suddenly rang."
5785	anger	"I was concentrating on my work, my friend disturbed me   continously.  I asked him to stop but in vain."
5786	sadness	"I had asked the teacher to write a recommendation letter for me,   but I had not provided enough information and had run short of   time."
5787	disgust	"I was talking to a person who is a hypocrite, I felt   disgusted at his reaction."
5788	shame	My companion admired me I did some work voluntarily.
5789	guilt	My wrong behaviour made my loved one feel sad and uneasy.
5790	fear	"I received the higher level exam results, I mistook the   grade E in mathematics for a grade F and I was shocked."
5791	disgust	"Once I had started to write a paper, there was a phone   call for me.  I had to go downstairs to receive it and after the   conversation I discovered that all the information had   disappeared from my mind."
5792	shame	"the teacher asked me a question, I did not know the answer   and I just stood still for about a few minutes without saying a   word."
5793	guilt	Once I was in the cell group (religious activity) I found   that almost everyone in the group read the bible daily and I felt   guilty in my heart.
5794	fear	Tutorial again !  A fearful feeling came to me I sat on the   chair and looked at my fellow students all around.  I was really   scared that they would ask me some questions or challenge the   ideas that I had presented.
5795	anger	"The trick was really intolerable.  They hid it, and I was worried   and restless all day.  I saw them I really wanted to slap   each one of them."
5796	sadness	"A and I were walking along the new Asia stairway to the Chung Chi   college for our lecture and I saw him with her.  He put one arm   around her shoulder and laugher brightly and neutralfully.  I did not   dare and did not want to look, just walked by them quickly.  The   interest of talking to A disappeared and I just wanted to remain   silent.  But I did not want A to know and so I left him and went   to F.  I should have expected this to happen."
5797	disgust	Knowing that I had to do the survey with him I felt very   reluctant.  Although I do not know him I feel disgusted by just   looking at him.  Thinking that the project lasted several days I   regreted having joined that project.
5798	shame	During the lesson the teacher called me and asked me if I had   reported that I was late.  I pretended that I had but looking at   her eyes I knew that she knew that I was lying.  I thought that   it was really bad luck that she had examined the list of the   students who were late.
5799	guilt	"That evening I opened the songbook while I was singing the   song ""Those were the days"" that guilt feeling became stronger.    The lyrics described well - I was really wrong.  The wish that I   had made was really bad. If she were with me I would really be   happy and we would play happily together like the days in   secondary school and she would not be disappointed and gloomy   because of me."
5800	anger	I was scolded by my mother for no reason.
5801	sadness	I learnt that I had been betrayed by my friend.
5802	disgust	"I dined with my new friends, one of them kept reminding us   that he was superior."
5803	shame	While dining with some accquaintances I was asked something   which I should have known but I did not know.
5804	guilt	My friend came to the concert for my sake as it was me who had   organized it and the concert was unsuccessful.
5805	anger	I had a date with a friend to see a movie and my friend was late.    I waited for a long hour and was very angry.
5806	sadness	The quarrel between my  parents.
5807	disgust	During the Chinese lessons a student often showed off. Moreover   he misbehaved and dressed very badly.  So disgusting !
5808	shame	I saw a bag on the street and just then a stranger passed by.  I   picked up the bag immediately and gave it to the stranger as I   thought that it belonged to him.  But it was not his bag and I   felt ashamed.
5809	guilt	I refused to lend my homework to a friend.
5810	fear	"Once, before I had learnt to swim, I stepped on a slippery slope   where there was a lot of moss and I slipped into the water.  The   water was very deep and I could not stand on my feet.  I sank   and had to use a lot of energy."
5811	disgust	"One day I was sitting in a not very crowded bus, a middle    aged woman was standing beside me.  The person sitting next to me   got up to get off and this woman pushed me and occupied the seat.    Then she took off her shoes and put her feet on the seat."
5812	fear	I saw a horrible movie - Alien.
5813	guilt	One evening I went fishing with some friends but we could not   fish as a fisherman had already put his net there.  We pulled   out the net to find only crabs in it so we threw the net away.    The net was large and may have cost $1000.  The fisherman used   the net to earn a living and we had had thrown it.
5814	neutral	"I had a very close friend who went to Canada after her F.B, his    departure was unavoidable.  he came back during the Summer   holidays I was very happy as nothing had changed between us."
5815	sadness	My cat died from an illness.  It had been with us for 7 years.    It was a lovely cat.  It had been ill for one or two weeks and   the veterinary surgeon had told us that it was dying.
5816	shame	Our teacher had invited us to lunch and once at the canteen we   started introducing ourselves.  Two of the boys showed a lot of   interest in knowing personal details and then they started   talking about some activities held in the college.  I had little   interest in those activities so I talked to another student   sitting next to me as I was afraid that they would ask me   questions on those activities.
5817	fear	I forgot the lines of the play during an orientation camp.
5818	anger	Before the department meeting my friend ate a dish that I had   prepared for this meeting.
5819	sadness	"I had a very short term romance during the summer vacations.    we first met I felt excited but I wanted to avoid him after we had met   a few times and so I proposed that we stay apart, I felt very   sad then."
5820	shame	Acting in a play at the orientation camp made me feel timid.
5821	sadness	"my grandfather died I was extremely sad.  However my family   members did not have any special feelings, they said that he was   already 80 years old."
5822	disgust	"I was an instructior in a youth organization.  Whenever we, the   instructors would have a meeting the advisor would be present.    He did not understand our worknig conditions but talked a lot   and had a lot of outdated ideas.  Whenever we disagreed with him   he was very discontent and said that we had a prejudice against   him.  Why did he have to treat us as his subordinates ?"
5823	shame	we received  our academic result I learnt that my  results   were bad as I had not done my best.  The results of my   accquaintances were good and they asked me about my results   I really did not want to answer.
5824	neutral	I finished my homework
5825	anger	"Mr C took my drawing pens, without having asked for my permission   first, and lost them.  He did not tell me about it till I asked   him and then did not try to find them."
5826	sadness	"I learnt that I had to repeat the first year, I found the   solution immediately but was blocked by many difficulties."
5827	shame	After I had given the wrong answer to my students they pointed   it out to me and I had to correct myself.
5828	guilt	I prayed unfaithfully.
5829	neutral	I am happpy I get good results in the field of academics or   athletics.  
5830	fear	"One day a fierce looking man came to our house  and said that my   father should apologize to him, however I was alone at home."
5831	anger	My cassmate laughed at me I was being scolded by the   teacher.
5832	sadness	I knew a girl so lovely that everyone would like her.  But she   refused to accept my Christmas present and I tried to forget   her.
5833	disgust	"I hate the behaviour of my so called friends, they use bad   language, spit, boast and treat the youngsters badly."
5834	shame	I was young my mother told the neighbour that I had wet the   bed.  I felt ashamed thinking that the neighbour's children would   get to know about it.
5835	guilt	One day while we were strolling along the road one of my   friends suggested that we go and watch a blue film.  I was   curious so I went along but I felt quite guilty later.
5836	fear	"One night we were having a barbecue on the beach and I needed to   go to my car, which was far away from the beach.  It was very   dark as there were no street lamps.  I ran in the dark, very   scared, I ran as fast as possible."
5837	sadness	I separated with the one I liked most.  She refused all my dates   and told me that she had dated another one.  My heart seemed to   cease beating.  I was silent for some time and then I whispered   goodbye and left without turning back.
5838	disgust	"I was a teacher in an evening school, a girl raised a lot of   questions and expressed her opinions.  She, very often, took a   stand which was different from mine and she thought that it   was better than mine.  Her opinions were helpful academically, but    she did not take into consideration my position in public.  Also   she seemed to be very talkative and so she disgusted me."
5839	shame	I had lunch in a restaurant with a friend and I paid the bill.    The change was that of a two dollar and a ten cent coin.  As I   was talking with my friend I took the two dollar coin and forgot   to leave a tip.
5840	guilt	"I was cold to my sister without meaning it, just because I was   upset and frustated."
5841	anger	"I was studying in the library - preparing for a test, two   people sitting next to me talked to each other for 20 minutes.    There were no other seats so I could not go elsewhere and I did     not want to interrupt them, so I could only be angry in my heart."
5842	disgust	"I was travelling to school by bus, I went past a place   where a sewer had been repaired.  There was a bad strong smell   which suffocated me and I wanted to leave the place immediately."
5843	guilt	I had promised myself that I would do one good deed every day.    One night I saw a beggar whose muscles had been atrophyed.  I   walked passed him thinking that he was feigning.  Later I   realized that he had not been pretending and I had a feeling of   guilt as I had not kept my promise.
5844	neutral	"Talkiing about the past happy hours with two friends at night in   a camp a few months ago.  We shared our feelings, notions and   every hidden anxiety.  I thought that they cared for me and I   was very happy and satified."
5845	sadness	"My mother suffers from a mental illness.  One night she was not   feeling well and was sent to the hospital.  I was scared that   she would die, and all night I was very sad and did not dare to   close my eyes."
5846	shame	I lost my temper at my mother while she was teaching me.  I felt   ashamed and sorry at having hurt my loving mother.
5847	guilt	I felt guilty at not having practised the piano.  I waste my   teacher's time and guidance.
5848	neutral	I watched a football match with my old friend.  The performance   of the team was very good and the team members were full of   spirit.  The match was excellent and every time a goal was scored   I felt excited.
5849	fear	"I got the midterm exam results, the results were below   average and were near the lowest.  I was scared of the final   exam."
5850	anger	"I came back to my hostel, my bed was full of newspapers and   dirty clothes.  My room-mate asked me to wash the clothes for him   as he had no time (this was his responsibility).  The food we   shared had been eaten up by him (I ate little)."
5851	sadness	"My sister was impolite to my father the family was having   lunch together at a restaurant.  She thought that our parents had   been prejudiced against her, this was an extreme thought."
5852	disgust	I was giving private tutorials to my student; he would not   concentrate and was lazy.  He had not done the home work that I    had assigned and his academic level was very low.  It was a   nuisance.
5853	shame	During a meeting I said something wrong and the others laughed at   me.
5854	guilt	"I entered the hostel this year.  My mother was ill and could not   move and needed people to look after her.  Every week I left home   to go back to school, I felt guilty."
5855	neutral	I received a letter from a friend whom I was missing
5856	fear	I feared that I would not be able to hand in the book-report on   time as I had started working very late.  The book was difficult   to read and my teacher did not accept my work as it was handed in   late.
5857	sadness	I found that my coldness had hurt somebody's sincerity.
5858	disgust	I was studying and someone disturbed me.
5859	guilt	I took french leave to do my homework.
5860	neutral	I realized that a fellow member had grown spiritually.  I was the   leader of a spiritual group and had prayed for him.  He did not   want to burn the incense but his mother forced him to do it.    Finally his mother told him that he could discontinue if he got   good results at school.
5861	fear	Looking for the toilet in a dark place.
5862	anger	"I gave tutorial to a student and I found that he was lazy, he did   not pay attention to what I taught.  He did some easy questions   wrong deliberately."
5863	sadness	I saw a lot of starving people in a T.V news report.
5864	disgust	"Our neighbour came and gossiped, about others, with my parents."
5865	shame	"I promised a friend that I would return a book to it's owner for   him , but I forgot to do it."
5866	guilt	Saw a blue film in a cinema.
5867	fear	An hour before receiving the certificate results I was very   frightened.  I saw others crying I felt very tense and as   time went by my fear grew.
5868	sadness	"my mother went through an operation, it was not very serious   but I was sad and could not sleep before the operation."
5869	disgust	"During a recent meeting, Mr. A showed his excitement and   overindulged in the notes delivered.  Though his curiosity could   not be blamed, his way of accquiring knowledge was an extreme   behaviour e.g he always tried to know what I was reading and   gained everything he could."
5870	shame	"I was doing my homework at home, some relatives came and   advised me to help my mother do the house-work."
5871	neutral	I was admitted to the Chinese universiity.
5872	fear	An inter-college basket-ball match.
5873	anger	Something was stolen.
5874	sadness	I learnt that my close friend was going to immigrate.
5875	disgust	the summer holiday job was almost over.
5876	shame	During a meeting.
5877	guilt	Failed to keep an appointment.
5878	fear	Once while crossing a road I was overcome with fear.
5879	sadness	my studies are too demanding and I cannot cope with it.
5880	disgust	The behaviour of people spitting everywhere.
5881	shame	I could not finish my homework on time.
5882	guilt	After masturbation.
5883	neutral	I finished the work that I had planned to do - my homework.
5884	fear	I was not prepared for the exam but I wanted to sleep the night   before the exam.
5885	anger	Someone played a trick on me.
5886	sadness	the thing that made my friends and relatives sad happened to   them.
5887	disgust	It was a narrow and dirty passage which was located near the   market and I had to stand there to wait for people.
5888	shame	"I had something wrong, saying wrong things and being impolite to   someone, and this had embarrassed the this person.  And I   still meet the person."
5889	guilt	I said something which was against my conscience.
5890	neutral	Several good friends made me a surprise visit and this made me   happy.  They are my closest friends and we had not seen each   other for a long time.
5891	fear	The hero was chased by a terrible vampire in a suspense and   horror film shown on T.V.
5892	sadness	One of my good friends had to migrate to America.  Our friendship   had developed quite well and it was a pity as our friendship would   fade.
5893	disgust	"In a study group, a person always liked to argue on some   unimportant, irrelevant and minor points.  He tried to persuade      others in an unfriendly way.  He was obstinate and would not accept    other's point of view."
5894	guilt	I joked with an unfamiliar friend in an obstinate tone.  I was   afraid of his misunderstanding me and being hurt and angry at me.    I felt sorry over my conduct and thought that I had to find an   opportunity to apologize.
5895	neutral	"I remember my religious experience.  During  a gospel camp, a few   friends of mine decided to believe in God.  The neutral that I felt   at that time was more than words can express.  I blessed them and   praised God in my heart."
5896	fear	"I was camping in an old broken hut which had no lights.  I had   brought along a lamp which was not working very well.  The door   made strange sounds and I was sure that strange things were   happening.  The most terrifying bit was that there were many   wardrobes in the hut and everytime that I looked in the glass of   the wardrobe I felt that there were ""objects"" behind me.   The   whole night was spent in fear and restlessness."
5897	anger	"During a football match, the other team was rude and they hurt my   team members and me.  The coach was prejudiced against us and   punished us unreasonably.  Later we fought with each other and   the match had to be cut short."
5898	sadness	I heard of the death of a closefriend of mine.  I had gone camping          with him shortly before his death and the whole thing seemed very    sudden to me. 
5899	disgust	A  group of youngsters dressed in fads talked foul language on a   bus.  They also insulted the  pedestrians on the road and were   impolite to the passengers of the bus.
5900	shame	In a Christian gathering's lucky draw I mistook a girl's name for   mine (a boy's name).  I realized my mistake only I went up   to the stage for the prize.  I did not know what to do as   everyone was looking at me.  I blushed and went back to my seat.
5901	guilt	While playing basketball I broke a team member's spectacles.  His   face was injured by the  pieces of glass.  It was not serious but   I felt guilty and blamed myself for being too careless and   vigorous in my game.
5902	neutral	"After a busy day I went back to my hostel.  I closed the door and   had a drink, then I read my favourite book on the bed.  Suddenly   I felt peace and neutral."
5903	fear	"I went home and there was nobody, I waited till 2 A.M and        still nobody.  I was suddenly scared and anxious as this had never   happened before.  In addition my mother was very weak and I   feared that she had met with an accident.  Therefore I was anxious    all night."
5904	anger	Yesterday I read in the newspaper that a 30 year old woman had   abused her 2 month old son and had caused his death.  I was very   angry after reading this as this is not a human act and to abuse   so fragile a life is not a forgivable sin.
5905	sadness	"I had a schoolmate who went to the hospital as her brain was   bleeding.  She fell unconscious for three days and I went   to see her I saw the miserable state the family was in.  Moreover   I could not do nothing for her.  I was very sad.  Finally, she   died."
5906	disgust	A tiresome person held me up all day long.  I was very busy then   (I can not remember what the problem was).  He continously tried   to make me talk to him and disturbed me.
5907	shame	"One day, I was sitting on the bus, there was an old woman   standing beside me.  I was very tired and sleepy and did not   think of giving her my seat.  A 50 year old woman who was sitting   beside me got up and gave her seat to the old woman and said,    "" Old woman, please take my seat, the youngstters these days are   not used to giving their seats to others.""  I heard these   words I was very ashamed of myself and wanted to get off the bus   at once.  "
5908	guilt	"After an exam I was in a very bad mood as I had done it very         badly.  At home, my mother took so long to ask me how things had    gone that I lost my temper.  I overreacted and made my mother cry.   She still prepared lunch for me and did not scold me .  Suddenly,   I thought that it was my fault and I started crying.    "
5909	neutral	"I was appreciated by others, especially my family members and my   friends."
5910	fear	"Whenever I am alone in a dark room, walk alone on the street,   sleep alone in the room at night or see something which is only   partly visible.  This emotion was very strong as an 8 year     old child I saw something horrible.  "
5911	anger	"[ Whenever I put myself in other's shoes and try to make the   person happy, comfort him or make friends and I am misunderstood   and rejected, especially this person is a family member or a friend.]"
5912	sadness	There was a conflict of interest between me and a close friend of   mine.  He only thought about his own interest and not about our   friendship.  This behaviour hurt his friends.  Another incident   is a friend isolated himself without giving any reasons.
5913	disgust	I saw a lot of rubbish and animal waste on the floor.
5914	shame	I was emotionally unstable I said things which may have hurt   others or made them feel unhappy.  I calmed down I realized   that I had been selfish and had not taken into consideration the   feelings of others.  Then I felt ashamed as someone pointed out my   behaviour to me.
5915	guilt	"[ I break someone's things out of carelessness, or do something    to make others feel unhappy  or hurt the self-esteem / self-confidence    of others, especially if they happen to be friends or family members.]"
5916	fear	"One day I was a little boy, my friends asked me to play   with them outside and to catch some boys.  However our parents   did not know that we were out and I got home it was very   late and I feared being scolded by my parents."
5917	anger	I learnt that a friend of mine had talked about me to   another friend and had said wrong things about my abilities and   attitudes.  I was very angry.
5918	disgust	Once while studying for my exam I found so many complicated words   that it disgusted me.
5919	shame	I was young I felt ashamed our relatives visited us and   I hid myself.
5920	neutral	"[ During a certain period, I felt successful and extremely satisfied.     I found that any tasks or decisions that I had made were better    than expected.]"
5921	fear	I am scared I stroll alone on the Chung Chi college campus. 
5922	anger	"One day, I discussed a very important question with A.  A   suddenly declared that he would not accept my position and   thought that he himself was right.  Moreover, he attacked    strongly, not my opinion but me personally."
5923	sadness	"I learnt that I had failed an exam,  This not only influenced   my emotions but also other important tasks, it also made my   record imperfect."
5924	guilt	"We always made a lot of noise during a certain lecture.  This may   have been because we did not respect the lecturer. Finaly, the   lecturer could not tolerate it and he scolded us angrily and   pointed out our misbehaviour."
5925	anger	Once my father slapped my mother for a small quarrel.
5926	sadness	"A few years ago my mother suffered from canccer and died within   two years.  We had not finished our studies then and could not   bear our responsibilities as her children.  My mother had tried   her best to take care of us but she lived in pain these two   years.  Neither the doctor nor we could do anything for her as   cancer is incurable.  I was very eager to replace her in   suffernig , even die instead of her."
5927	shame	It was discovered that I had received a warning letter as my   G.P.A was very low.
5928	sadness	"After a meeting ended we started talking about we would   have the next discussion ( I had many tests the coming week and   could not have a meeting in between, I thought that they would   understand this as they had always done).  They did not   understand my problem and thought that I should not have so many   other activities.  Their reaction made me burst into tears."
5929	disgust	I was studying in the library a pair of lovers were sitting   next to me talking in an intense and soft voice.  They were   disturbing others.
5930	shame	"During an informal discussion I contributed a lot even though I   had not spent much time studying.  Whenever someone said that   someone was not paying attention, or that he had too many other   things to do, or that the persoon was not trying his best, I   would feel ashamed."
5931	fear	The day the results of the certificate exam came out.  I went to   school and at first I did not feel frightened.  By the time I   reached the fourth floor ( the results were being given on the   fifth floor) I found it difficult to walk and felt that I would   die.
5932	fear	I was on a trip to Phillipines during Summer and I was staying in   a hotel.  The room I was staying in was very silent and had very   dim lights.  The last night I felt frightened and lay awake - I   could hear some sounds around me and dared not open my eyes - I   waited for dawn.
5933	sadness	I am a Christian but I cannot find any meaning in life . It   seems that I am deceiving myself but I cannot find the way out.
5934	shame	I felt shame I found that I was almost last in the exam.
5935	neutral	the result of the certificate exam was announced.  I was   surprised and happy as the result was better than I had   expected.
5936	fear	I was young I got lost on the street and the police found me   after a day.
5937	anger	My sister once stole my mother's money and made her very angry.    After this my mother would beat her up for unreasonable reasons.    One day my sister lent her book to a friend without telling my   mother about it.  my mother learnt this she beat her up and   even threatened her with a pair of scissors.  
5938	sadness	My academic result was poor and I had to repeat the second year.    I felt sad about the coming several years.
5939	disgust	"My mother was always fastidious about my room, bed time, etc.    She treated us strictly and punished us physically.   These   things were intolerable."
5940	guilt	"I was in P3 I was always punished as I would forget to do my   homework.  The first time that I was punished and not allowed to   leave school, I slipped out of school."
5941	fear	"One year, I went to a camp, I was chased by a dog.  I tried   hard and finally managed to escape from it.  My torch suddenly   went off and we talked about ghost stories and I thought that   there were ghosts."
5942	anger	I was in F4 I played a basket-ball match against another   school's team.  One of their team members kicked a team-mate of   mine so I kicked him back and we had a fight with each other.
5943	sadness	I received the mid-term exam paper of one of my major subjects   and I found that I had failed it.
5944	guilt	I promised to join a meeting but did not turn up as I did not   want to do the work.
5945	neutral	[ my performance (homework or other work) is better than others.]
5946	fear	I found a problem in homework which would not get solved although   I tried my best.
5947	sadness	I found that my ability to do ordinary work was worse than   my fellow mates.
5948	shame	My guilty behaviour was found out by others.
5949	neutral	"During my Summer vacations I planned a carnival for the community   youth center with a few other volunteers.  I was the head of the   organizors and we spent over a month planning it.  During this   period we got to know and understood each other.  We   discovered each others potential and we planned many interesting   things for the carnival.  The day of the carnival everything was   bright, the programmes went well and the attendants enneutraled it.    I felt extremely excited about it."
5950	fear	"Once, I was ten, I could not remember why my mother was so   angry.  She fainted suddenly and I was very scared as I did not   know what to do ."
5951	anger	I got into a bus I found that my wallet had been stolen.   It was not a great loss from the monetary point of view but I   lost some documents - identity papers.  As a result I had to   spend several days in order to get a new one.  I will always   remember all the work I had to do and the bad treatment I   suffered because of the bureaucratic behaviour of the civil   servant.  I had already had bad luck and they treated me like a   criminal.   At one point of time I really wanted to quarrel with   them.
5952	disgust	"A few days back, I walked on a heap of faeces while walking on   the road.  I got goose flesh because of this."
5953	shame	During the English lesson we were required to do a play.  A few   days after doing it the teacher asked us to do it again at a meeting    and I forgot my part.
5954	neutral	"After attending a song contest proposed by a band called ""Chyne""   we (6 of us) waited for the members of the band to greet us in   front of the stage.  We went out after a few minutes as it was   time to close the hall.  We had been waiting at the entrance hall   for ten minutes three of the band members came out.  They   were very excited to see us, one of them was so excited that he   had tears in his eyes.  We felt very warm and close to each   other.  They took us back into the hall and we talked freely.  We   were together for about an hour and during this time we felt   that they were very sincere."
5955	fear	At noon one Sunday I received a phone call telling me that my   mother had been knocked down by a car at the street crossing and   that her husband should go and see her.  I could not believe this   as my father and my mother had gone out together to buy lunch   boxes.  However I immediately ran to the scene of the accident.
5956	shame	"I was in lower six I joined an interview group to   interview the general public.  One of my friends in the group   lost her purse and she was very nervous.  Five of us had to go   another place so we left her, and planned to see her later.  Then   I heard her describing how her purse looked.  I realized that I   had seen her purse on the floor and had not wanted to do any   thing about it. "
5957	sadness	I was ill and had to stay at the hospital for a period of   time.  
5958	disgust	A few days back I was waiting for the bus at the bus stop.    Before getting into the bus I had prepared the exact amount of   coins to pay for the bus fair and I got into the bus I put   these coins into the box meant to collect the bus fair.  I   thought that I had paid and wanted to get inside.  However the   bus driver called me and asked me in an impolite way if the coins   were stuck at the opening  of the box.  He had not seen me paying   and there wasn't a stack of coins in the box.  I could not   understand this and the driver kept questioning me.  He made me   feel angry and at last i inserted a dollar coin in the box just   to get away from him.  Later I found that I had forgotten a few   coins in my pocket and had not paid enough for the fair the first   time.  After I had entered the bus I could still hear him   scolding me and I felt disgusted.
5959	guilt	Once I quarrelled with my sister and after this I deliberately   messed up her belongings.
5960	neutral	"I had a dream : I had a very close friend who had several stone   houses in the New Territories (villages) but they did not have   much furniture.  He took me to see his fields (I had never seen   them before) and there were several inches of clear water on   which the sunshine was reflected.  I wanted to sit among the   short green plants in the fields but was afraid of treading the   plants to death.  My friend said ""They will not die"" and I sat   down happily and my trousers did not get wet."
5961	fear	"After seeing a horror film - Omen.  I could not sleep at night    even though I closed my eyes.  The last scene of the film kept   coming back to me, I seemed to hear the girls in the film   shouting at the devil.  The devil did not have any expression on   his face and I thought that he would choose me."
5962	anger	My friend often played a joke on me and sometimes I thought that   he was a nonsensical person. Once we went to a friend's   house he walked in first and shut the door firmly behind him.  I   felt that he did not respect me and moreover I was his friend so   he should not have behaved like that.  I was very angry (as it is   I was in a bad mood then).
5963	sadness	I suddenly found that those whom I considerered to be my good   friends did not care for me.  Although I could still be with them   I felt unimportant.  I deeply thought about the reason behind   this so as to see who was responsible for this.  Finally I made   up my mind and decided not to expect too much from them.  I was   sad I decided that they were no longer my good friends.
5964	disgust	"I had a friend who was very kind to me.  I tried my best to like   him and understand him but I was with him I could not help   rejecting, criticizing and blaming him.  I wanted to get away   from him as soon as possible."
5965	shame	"My teacher reminded us not to do a Summer job, however I did it   for two months.  Yesterday I was chatting with my teacher and   we talked of the Summer job, I felt ashamed."
5966	guilt	I wanted to get rid of a bad habit and it seemed that I had   succeeded.  However a year later I got the bad habit again.  I felt    useless as I always found excuses to explain my behaviour.  As a result I   felt guilty.
5967	fear	A boy phoned me at night and wanted to talk to me for 30 minutes   outside.  I thought that he would reveal what he felt and would   question me on our relationship.  I treated him as a friend and   did not want any misunderstandings.  Therefore I refused to meet   him and told him that I would see him the coming day.  I was very   unhappy as I feared having hurt him and got him into trouble.
5968	anger	We had fixed time for practice as we had to participate in the   inter-department song contest.  I arrived and found that there   was nobody there.  I went to the canteen I found them eating   lunch.  I was so angry that I aired my greviances to one of them   and then left.
5969	sadness	A friend told me that he had suffered in love and in academics.    I shared his sadness.
5970	disgust	A friend told me that a boy wanted to get to know me.  At that   time I felt disgusted and thought that it was a nonsense thing.
5971	shame	"One rainy day the streets were wet, and as I was walking down   a slope, I fell down out of my carelessness.  There were many   people and they saw me, so I felt ashamesd.  Moreover I hurt my   ankle and it was painful."
5972	guilt	"One night during dinner my nephew was naughty, so I quarrelled with my    parents.   I regreted this as my nephew was only two years old and I    had to tolerate him !  The quarrel made my father think that his children    may not take care of him in the future (it was a slip of the tongue and    this made me realize that my father keeps his thoughts to himself).  I was    still very angry so I dropped my bowl and chopsticks and went to the kitchen    to drink tea and then ran to the other side of the house."
5973	fear	"I was young I had gone to an old lift and played with the   antique lift.  The guy discovered me and warned me, I was very   frightened."
5974	anger	Whenever my father smokes the smell makes me feel very   uncomfortable.  He never listens to my complaints and I curse him   furiously in my mind.  I cannot solve this problem by violence   because of traditional moral values.  
5975	disgust	My friend and I worked for the community centre by holding a booth.    One day my friend went off to another booth to play.  This   meant that I was very busy and could not maintain order.  His   behaviour disgusted me.
5976	anger	"I came across a girl at the school bus-stop, I had seen her   several friends as she was a friend's friend.  However my friend   had never introduced me to her and she got off the bus I   smiled at her but she did not respond pretending not to have seen   me.  Her arrogant behaviour made me sick and angry."
5977	disgust	my roommate and I had dinner together we decided as to who   would clean the bowls.  One day I came back from school I   found that she had not cleaned up.  Since I had to cook dinner I   cleaned them myself and felt unhappy and disgusted.
5978	guilt	I escaped from communicating with God for a long time.  I did not   read the scriptures and I did not pray.  I felt that I was   getting further and further away from God.  I felt guilty as this   was because of my laziness.
5979	fear	"I did not do well in one of the subjects last term.   I was   afraid that I would fail.  My result was a grade D, though it was   not good I still passed.  I felt more comfortable then.  "
5980	anger	"My friend half-teasingly called me a bad nickname.  I felt   insulted and kicked his hip in anger.  I was stable later and did   not feel angry at him.  In fact I was afraid that the other   friends who were with us would think that I was an intolerant   person.  However I could not apologize, so I pretended that   nothing had happened and smiled I left.  My friend did not   say anything but just watched me leave."
5981	sadness	Last night I did not do very well in one of the subjects.  Before   the result was announced I feared that I would fail.  Finally I   got a D and as the results of the other subjects were not all        good I felt a little sad.
5982	fear	At primary school the teacher caught me cheating during a   dictation.
5983	anger	Someone spread rumours about me.
5984	sadness	One night my father suddenly suffered from a heart attack which   lead to breathing difficulties.
5985	shame	"I forgot to zip up my trousers, this was not noticed by anyone."
5986	guilt	Peeping.
5987	fear	At night I was alone at home (all the family members usually   get together at that time) someone knocked vigorously on the   door.
5988	anger	I saw that my bed at the hostel was a mess I guessed that   someone else had used my daily necessities.  I felt that my  personal   sanity had been affected.
5989	shame	I lied to one of my best friends.
5990	neutral	I received a letter from a distant friend.
5991	guilt	I did not do the homework that the teacher had asked us to do.  I   was scolded immediately.
5992	fear	fear
5993	fear	afraid
5994	fear	frighten
5995	fear	scare
5996	fear	venerate
5997	fear	terrify
5998	fear	abhorrence
5999	fear	agitation
6000	fear	angst
6001	fear	anxiety
6002	fear	aversion
6003	fear	awe
6004	fear	concern
6005	fear	consternation
6006	fear	cowardice
6007	fear	creeps
6008	fear	death
6009	fear	despair
6010	fear	discomposure
6011	fear	dismay
6012	fear	disquietude
6013	fear	distress
6014	fear	doubt
6015	fear	dread
6016	fear	faintheartedness
6017	fear	foreboding
6018	fear	fright
6019	fear	funk
6020	fear	horror
6021	fear	jitters
6022	fear	misgiving
6023	fear	nightmare
6024	fear	panic
6025	fear	phobia
6026	fear	presentiment
6027	fear	qualm
6028	fear	recreancy
6029	fear	catch
6030	fear	follow
6031	fear	reverence
6032	fear	revulsion
6033	fear	scare
6034	fear	suspicion
6035	fear	terror
6036	fear	timidity
6037	fear	trembling
6038	fear	tremor
6039	fear	trepidation
6040	fear	unease
6041	fear	uneasiness
6042	fear	worry
6043	fear	afraid
6044	fear	aghast
6045	fear	anxious
6046	fear	fearful
6047	fear	panicky
6048	fear	petrified
6049	fear	shaken
6050	fear	startled
6051	fear	terrified
6052	disgust	disgust 
6053	disgust	sicken
6054	disgust	nuseate
6055	disgust	antipathy
6056	disgust	dislike
6057	disgust	distaste
6058	disgust	hatred
6059	disgust	loath
6060	disgust	revulsion
6061	disgust	repel
6062	disgust	grossed
6063	disgust	abhorrencesta
6064	disgust	rabomination
6065	disgust	detestation
6066	disgust	hatefulness
6067	disgust	nausea
6068	disgust	objection
6069	disgust	repugnance
6070	disgust	revolt
6071	disgust	satiation
6072	disgust	satiety
6073	disgust	sickness
6074	disgust	surfeit
6075	disgust	nauseation
6076	disgust	nauseousness
6077	disgust	nauseous
6078	disgust	abominable
6079	disgust	awful
6080	disgust	creepy
6081	disgust	distasteful
6082	disgust	gruesome
6083	disgust	hateful
6084	disgust	horrific
6085	disgust	loathsome
6086	disgust	nasty
6087	disgust	objectionable
6088	disgust	obnoxious
6089	disgust	odious
6090	disgust	outrageous
6091	disgust	repugnant
6092	disgust	scandalous
6093	disgust	shameless
6094	disgust	shocking
6095	disgust	vile
6096	disgust	vulgar
6097	disgust	cloying
6098	disgust	foul
6099	disgust	gross
6100	disgust	nauseating
6101	disgust	revolting
6102	disgust	satiating
6103	disgust	stinking
6104	disgust	surfeiting
6105	disgust	beastly
6106	disgust	detestable
6107	disgust	frightful
6108	disgust	ghastly
6109	disgust	grody
6110	disgust	hideous
6111	disgust	horrid
6112	disgust	icky
6113	disgust	lousy
6114	disgust	macabre
6115	disgust	monstrous
6116	disgust	nerdy
6117	disgust	noisome
6118	disgust	offensive
6119	disgust	repellent
6120	disgust	rotten
6121	disgust	scuzzy
6122	disgust	sleazeball
6123	disgust	sleazy
6124	disgust	torture
6125	disgust	yecchy
6126	disgust	yucky
6127	sadness	Sad
6128	sadness	Sorrow
6129	sadness	Pity
6130	sadness	lament
6131	sadness	Hurt
6132	sadness	Cry
6133	sadness	bad
6134	sadness	bereaved
6135	sadness	bitter
6136	sadness	blue
6137	sadness	cheerless
6138	sadness	dejected
6139	sadness	despairing
6140	sadness	despondent
6141	sadness	disconsolate
6142	sadness	deplorable
6143	sadness	dismal
6144	sadness	distressed
6145	sadness	doleful
6146	sadness	down
6147	sadness	downcast
6148	sadness	forlorn
6149	sadness	fail
6150	sadness	gloomy
6151	sadness	glum
6152	sadness	grief-stricken
6153	sadness	grieved
6154	sadness	heartbroken
6155	sadness	heartsick
6156	sadness	heavyhearted
6157	sadness	hurting
6158	sadness	languishing
6159	sadness	low
6160	sadness	low-spirited
6161	sadness	lugubrious
6162	sadness	lost
6163	sadness	melancholy
6164	sadness	morbid
6165	sadness	morose
6166	sadness	mournful
6167	sadness	pensive
6168	sadness	pessimistic
6169	sadness	somber
6170	sadness	sorrowful
6171	sadness	sorry
6172	sadness	troubled
6173	sadness	weeping
6174	sadness	wistful
6175	sadness	woebegone
6176	shame	shame 
6177	shame	confusion
6178	shame	contempt
6179	shame	guilt
6180	shame	humiliation
6181	shame	irritation
6182	shame	remorse
6183	shame	scandal
6184	shame	stigma
6185	shame	abashment
6186	shame	blot
6187	shame	chagrin
6188	shame	compunction
6189	shame	contrition
6190	shame	degradation
6191	shame	derision
6192	shame	discomposure
6193	shame	discredit
6194	shame	disesteem
6195	shame	dishonor
6196	shame	disrepute
6197	shame	ignominy
6198	shame	infamy
6199	shame	mortification
6200	shame	obloquy
6201	shame	odium
6202	shame	opprobrium
6203	shame	pang
6204	shame	reproach
6205	shame	smear
6206	shame	stupefaction
6207	shame	treachery
6208	shame	pudency
6209	shame	dastardly
6210	shame	disgraceful
6211	shame	embarrassing
6212	shame	flagrant
6213	shame	heinous
6214	shame	humiliating
6215	shame	ignominious
6216	shame	immoral
6217	shame	indecent
6218	shame	outrageous
6219	shame	reprehensible
6220	shame	scandalous
6221	shame	shocking
6222	shame	sinful
6223	shame	vile
6224	shame	base
6225	shame	carnal
6226	shame	contemptible
6227	shame	corrupt
6228	shame	debauched
6229	shame	degrading
6230	shame	diabolical
6231	shame	dishonorable
6232	shame	drunken
6233	shame	immodest
6234	shame	impure
6235	shame	infamous
6236	shame	intemperate
6237	shame	lewd
6238	shame	low
6239	shame	mean
6240	shame	mortifying
6241	shame	notorious
6242	shame	obscene
6243	shame	opprobrious
6244	shame	profligate
6245	shame	reprobate
6246	shame	ribald
6247	shame	shaming
6248	shame	unbecoming
6249	shame	unclean
6250	shame	unworthy
6251	shame	villainous
6252	shame	vulgar
6253	shame	wicked
6254	anger	Angry
6255	anger	Irritate
6256	anger	Stupid
6257	anger	Annoy
6258	anger	Furious
6259	anger	rage
6260	anger	Frustrate
6261	anger	acrimony
6262	anger	animosity
6263	anger	annoyance
6264	anger	antagonism
6265	anger	conniption
6266	anger	dander
6267	anger	disapprobation
6268	anger	displeasure
6269	anger	distemper
6270	anger	enmity
6271	anger	tempestuous
6272	anger	turbulent
6273	anger	stormy
6274	anger	exasperation
6275	anger	fury
6276	anger	gall
6277	anger	hatred
6278	anger	huff
6279	anger	impatience
6280	anger	indignation
6281	anger	infuriation
6282	anger	irascibility
6283	anger	ire
6284	anger	irritability
6285	anger	irritation
6286	anger	mad
6287	anger	miff
6288	anger	outrage
6289	anger	passion
6290	anger	peevishness
6291	anger	petulance
6292	anger	pique
6293	anger	rage
6294	anger	rankling
6295	anger	resentment
6296	anger	slow burn
6297	anger	soreness
6298	anger	stew
6299	anger	storm
6300	anger	tantrum
6301	anger	temper
6302	anger	tiff
6303	anger	umbrage
6304	anger	vexation
6305	anger	violence
6306	anger	torture
6307	guilt	guilt 
6308	guilt	culpability
6309	guilt	disgrace
6310	guilt	indiscretion
6311	guilt	liability
6312	guilt	regret
6313	guilt	remorse
6314	guilt	responsibility
6315	guilt	shame
6316	guilt	sin
6317	guilt	stigma
6318	guilt	answerability
6319	guilt	blameworthiness
6320	guilt	contrition
6321	guilt	crime
6322	guilt	criminality
6323	guilt	delinquency
6324	guilt	dereliction
6325	guilt	dishonor
6326	guilt	error
6327	guilt	failing
6328	guilt	fault
6329	guilt	infamy
6330	guilt	iniquity
6331	guilt	lapse
6332	guilt	malfeasance
6333	guilt	malpractice
6334	guilt	misbehavior
6335	guilt	misconduct
6336	guilt	misstep
6337	guilt	offense
6338	guilt	onus
6339	guilt	penitence
6340	guilt	sinfulness
6341	guilt	slip
6342	guilt	solecism
6343	guilt	transgression
6344	guilt	wickedness
6345	guilt	wrong
6346	guilt	malefaction
6347	guilt	peccability
6348	guilt	convicted
6349	guilt	culpable
6350	guilt	liable
6351	guilt	remorseful
6352	guilt	responsible
6353	guilt	sorry
6354	guilt	wrong
6355	guilt	accusable
6356	guilt	caught
6357	guilt	censurable
6358	guilt	censured
6359	guilt	chargeable
6360	guilt	condemned
6361	guilt	contrite
6362	guilt	convictable
6363	guilt	criminal
6364	guilt	damned
6365	guilt	delinquent
6366	guilt	depraved
6367	guilt	doomed
6368	guilt	err
6369	guilt	evil
6370	guilt	felonious
6371	guilt	hangdog
6372	guilt	impeached
6373	guilt	incriminated
6374	guilt	iniquitous
6375	guilt	judged
6376	guilt	licentious
6377	guilt	offending
6378	guilt	proscribed
6379	guilt	regretful
6380	guilt	reprehensible
6381	guilt	rueful
6382	guilt	sentenced
6383	guilt	sheepish
6384	guilt	sinful
6385	guilt	wicked
6386	neutral	Joy
6387	neutral	Happy
6388	neutral	glad
6389	neutral	joy
6390	neutral	good
6391	neutral	pleasure
6392	neutral	Amusement
6393	neutral	Love
6394	neutral	elation
6395	neutral	exultation
6396	neutral	exhilaration
6397	neutral	exuberance
6398	neutral	happiness
6399	neutral	Glad
6400	neutral	Merry
6401	neutral	Rejoicing
6402	neutral	Belonging
6403	neutral	Cheerful
6404	neutral	Contentment
6405	neutral	alleviation
6406	neutral	bliss
6407	neutral	charm
6408	neutral	cheer
6409	neutral	comfort
6410	neutral	delectation
6411	neutral	delight
6412	neutral	diversion
6413	neutral	ecstasy
6414	neutral	elation
6415	neutral	exultation
6416	neutral	exulting
6417	neutral	felicity
6418	neutral	festivity
6419	neutral	frolic
6420	neutral	fruition
6421	neutral	gaiety
6422	neutral	glee
6423	neutral	humor
6424	neutral	gratification
6425	neutral	hilarity
6426	neutral	humor
6427	neutral	jubilance
6428	neutral	liveliness
6429	neutral	luxury
6430	neutral	merriment
6431	neutral	ravishment
6432	neutral	refreshment
6433	neutral	regalement
6434	neutral	rejoicing
6435	neutral	revelry
6436	neutral	satisfaction
6437	neutral	solace
6438	neutral	treasure
6439	neutral	blessed
6440	neutral	blissful
6441	neutral	captivated
6442	neutral	cheerful
6443	neutral	chipper
6444	neutral	chirpy
6445	neutral	content
6446	neutral	contented
6447	neutral	convivial
6448	neutral	delighted
6449	neutral	ecstatic
6450	neutral	elated
6451	neutral	exultant
6452	neutral	gay
6453	neutral	glad
6454	neutral	gleeful
6455	neutral	gratified
6456	neutral	intoxicated
6457	neutral	jolly
6458	neutral	joyful
6459	neutral	joyous
6460	neutral	jubilant
6461	neutral	laughing
6462	neutral	light
6463	neutral	lively
6464	neutral	merry
6465	neutral	mirthful
6466	neutral	overjoyed
6467	neutral	peaceful
6468	neutral	peppy
6469	neutral	perky
6470	neutral	playful
6471	neutral	pleasant
6472	neutral	pleased
6473	fear	"It was just really terrible, I mean at first I was just scared stiff that I  couldn't enjoy the dance on Sunday."
6474	fear	"To begin with I found it almost too much to take on board, but it was all extremely thought-provoking and I had to make a decision to put my heart into it or not to bother at all."
6475	fear	Did you have a lump in your throat?
6476	fear	"Now take it easy, don't get panicky."
6477	fear	"Get that tray along to the study, or there'll be murder to pay."
6478	fear	Eight extra bullets in a tight spot could mean the difference between life and death.
6479	fear	Hoomey's teeth were chattering after his dice with death.
6480	fear	"There is a legal case pending, and it is a very, very dicey situation."
6481	fear	The whole area seemed fraught with danger.
6482	fear	Obey them to the letter and you will be well rewarded -- any bungling or playing the fool and I doubt you'll live to tell the tale
6483	fear	A business worth three billion pounds a year is at stake.
6484	fear	"If the bombing starts, take cover in the basement."
6485	fear	I'm gon na fall flat on my bum.
6486	fear	Erm you probably all know Murphy 's law that what can go wrong will go wrong.
6487	fear	Alyssia stopped dead in her tracks.
6488	fear	"Plod could herd them all together into a group, march them to and from their destinations, depriving them along the way of all alcohol  and beat the living daylights out of any who still insisted on stepping out of line."
6489	fear	I think they feared that we wouldn't at that stage we'd be opening up free for all of the kind which we've obviously been seeking to avoid thus far.
6490	fear	But I don't want you to fly off the handle.
6491	fear	Now on top of her injuries her insurance is set to go through the roof.
6492	fear	In terms of how rant and rave for probably not very long and you don't get aggressive behaviour.
6493	fear	"With bated breath and trying to make herself invisible, Joan waited for them to pass the alcove and make their way downstairs."
6494	fear	No wonder she's bundle of nerves.
6495	fear	You get your legs get stiff you get pins and needles and things like that.
6496	fear	"You don't tell me it's because you've got a lump in your throat, or an ache in your heart, or a sensation of nausea in your stomach."
6497	fear	"I was absolutely in my element, how did I come over, Jannie?"
6498	fear	"I was terrified of him, but I found myself in a horrible Catch 22 situation."
6499	fear	There were ominous dark clouds gathering overhead now and a chill wind.
6500	fear	"There was a cloud on the horizon, however, which worried the Bradleys."
6501	fear	"When the going gets tough, where will the hostess retreat to?"
6502	fear	Soon the cat's back and the seal would be high and dry.
6503	fear	But I am in a pickle when I get one.
6504	fear	Heavy dependence on sponsorship and arts council cash could spell trouble as the recession hits arts budgets.
6505	fear	"You need the help I can give you because if you unknowingly make a false move or fail to react promptly because you're not sure what to do, your daughter will be dispensed with as being too risky a property."
6506	fear	"But now, in her present jittery, restless mood, it seemed fraught with danger."
6507	fear	"But here and there some found action on this very camp, and didn't live to tell the tale"
6508	fear	"We're on the edge of what we call a no go area, if we try to sail any closer to the wind the boat will come upright, the sail will flap and we'll slow down and stop and so the best we can make either side of the no go area is known as a beat."
6509	fear	So it's best just to be er on the safe side.
6510	fear	I did not sleep a wink last night for worrying about you and if you are alright.
6511	fear	Oh go up in smoke
6512	fear	She was a bundle of nerves.
6513	fear	I'm scared stiff I'm going to lose touch with my children.
6514	fear	"He also gives us a measured degree of self doubt mixed with evasiveness and a realistic progression from a young, ambitious eager beaver on the music hall circuit to a very old man languishing with his memories in Switzerland."
6515	fear	The idea makes me feel weak at the knees.
6516	fear	Tonight we're going to paint the town red.
6517	fear	"I don't want to speak out of turn, of course."
6518	fear	We have had to batten down the hatches.
6519	fear	I wasn't as convinced as Malpass that Nevil was out of harm 's way.
6520	fear	You've already had one long journey today and I'd rather you didn't fall asleep at the wheel.
6521	fear	"Do we have the makings of a champion, or does stress and anxiety get the better of you?"
6522	fear	"Horror-struck, she was rooted to the spot with terror, her eyes drawn to the top of the stairs, waiting for the first sign."
6523	fear	"We are left with the unspecific practical objection, the objection that is as much to say that only seeing is believing."
6524	fear	"He stopped dead in his tracks, rooted to the spot with horror."
6525	fear	"The whole day had been a great strain and although they had attempted to resolve their differences and clear the air, Rachel found herself dreading the prospect of working with David Markham on a permanent basis."
6526	fear	When I think of the large sum of money this office has put into that gutter print it makes my blood boil.
6527	fear	"Poor kid, thought Alice, he's scared stiff."
6528	fear	So he left me in a stew of doubt.
6529	fear	I'll be on tenterhooks.
6530	fear	"Well no because they just go bananas if you do, you've got to be careful."
6531	fear	Its clatter set alarm bells ringing in her head.
6532	fear	Fear returns to haunt us as managers carry the can
6533	fear	"If it looks as if it's going to be nasty, I take the easy way out."
6534	fear	But every day hundreds of ordinary workers dice with death to complete these essential tasks.
6535	fear	"It seems to be looking straight at me, its knuckled legs poised, tense, waiting I know for one false move from me to trigger it into an electrifying spring... straight at me."
6536	fear	"The first time he tried it, with elastic supports round his wrists, Anne Heaton was terrified and wondered whether she would live to tell the tale, but it worked."
6537	fear	Nothing less than the future of mankind is at stake.
6538	fear	"But watch your step, Kit."
6539	fear	Jo began frantically to try frame a lie in her mind but she could not think clearly.
6540	fear	The present rendezvous had been riding high on my chart of dreads.
6541	fear	The unexpected sound of the deep voice suddenly coming from somewhere beside her made Laura almost jump out of her skin.
6542	fear	You need to clear the air and get deep seated anxieties and worries off your chest Saturday.
6543	fear	"A little scared, very curious, ravenously hungry and ready to argue the toss with anyone after being passed from person to person like so many yards of parcelled muslin."
6544	fear	His stomach was churning but he knew he could elude her if only he could remain calm and call her bluff.
6545	fear	Rosie was very insecure and a bundle of nerves.
6546	fear	We were all gay but scared stiff to do anything about it.
6547	fear	I'm really on tenterhooks about the twins.
6548	fear	It was after the tour that Take That-mania reached fever pitch and the band were forced to employer a minder to make sure they don't get into any sticky situations.
6549	fear	"In effect, the message being sent to John and the other hostages was that they had to keep a stiff upper lip and hope that, one day, the kidnappers might let them go."
6550	fear	"If you overstep the mark, you may find yourself involved in a costly legal fight."
6551	fear	"General de Rivieres, the creator of Verdun fortress had warned that its Achilles Heel lay on the Left Bank."
6552	fear	There were alarm bells ringing in Edward's skull.
6553	fear	Let's just say I got in a tight spot.
6554	fear	"But even if they are carried, the second shot becomes fraught with danger."
6555	fear	In order to survive the jungle and live to tell the tale it is important not only to have good companions.
6556	fear	The audience had been told to disperse to their cars to take cover.
6557	fear	"The casualty was lying beam-on to the swell, and dead in the water with no engine power, so the helicopter's attempt to lift them."
6558	fear	Members might like to note that Crich is a front runner for next summer's trip.
6559	fear	"If you're camping in the wilderness on your own, don't let imagination get the better of you."
6560	fear	"Then she stopped dead in her tracks, the blood seeping from her veins, leaving her stiff and white with shock."
6561	fear	How do you know that you haven't landed yourself with someone who'll be struck dumb with nerves?
6562	fear	"And major sponsors of the Renault-Williams team, caught in the crossfire of the bitter battle between the world champion and his team boss Frank Williams, are in a panic."
6563	fear	The reviewer is likely to get hot under the collar if a personal favourite has been left out and can easily end up merely drawing up a rival selection.
6564	fear	Trying to interrogate officers of the Grand Army would have been asking for trouble.
6565	fear	"Seated where he is, Rhys Williams knows one false move could mean the might of God descending on him at any moment."
6566	fear	She is no short term flash in the pan.
6567	fear	"In this context the financial muscle associated with a more diversified grouping, where risks are spread more evenly, can serve to help weather the storm."
6568	fear	"That Wright is ultimately responsible for handling his short fuse and, to help him do that, think back to the hundreds of games he's played when there has been no trouble."
6569	fear	"The patient with back pain will say, I'm scared stiff."
6570	fear	You can't go to pieces.
6571	fear	"That's how one Irish farm leader sums up commissioner Ray MacSharry, the former minister for agriculture, whose radical reform plan for the CAP has set alarm bells ringing in his native country."
6572	fear	I should keep your back to the wall.
6573	fear	"The crux of the matter is, how do we prevent a 1947 or 1990 flood occurring again?"
6574	fear	"You're going to be left in the lurch, Giles."
6575	fear	I feared that without him I would batten down the hatches of the physical part of me and crawl back inside the shell which I had built around myself in the three years before he blew through my life.
6576	fear	"Holliman decided that they had to take cover, so they scuttled into a patch of scrub and camouflaged themselves with nets."
6577	fear	You're in danger of going too far this week.
6578	fear	On the Saturday I got the pins and needles back and was rushed to casualty.
6579	fear	The young lady behind the bar was scared stiff by our presence.
6580	fear	"Moreover, death is just' the tip of the iceberg."
6581	fear	And its spectacular fall from grace should serve as a warning.
6582	fear	The blood ran cold in Rory's veins as she stood rooted to the spot in horror.
6583	fear	Styczynski had x-rays after saying that he had pains in his chest and pins and needles in his arms.
6584	fear	"Cis, who knew about it, was scared stiff."
6585	fear	"For the remainder of the carol I was on tenterhooks, not daring to take my eyes from the lectern."
6586	fear	Careful study of this sent alarm bells ringing throughout vast areas 
6587	fear	Turn around and jump back to the wall.
6588	fear	A close shave in the post room.
6589	fear	"She says do not worry, but it's wiser to be on the safe side."
6590	fear	"He felt cold to the point of shivering, weak enough for standing to be out of the question."
6591	fear	He's scared stiff of it.
6592	fear	But there were no hard feelings
6593	fear	"It sent alarm bells ringing throughout the East, and brought Russia into renewed conflict with China."
6594	fear	The reputation of Hawaii was at stake.
6595	fear	So it was the dreaded wooden spoon for the Irish.
6596	fear	He did his best to paper over the cracks.
